By Ubong John Hon. Dickson Frank Abasiekong, is a known name in politics of Ini Local Government Area,  a onetime Vice Chairman of the council and a former Councillor representing Ukwok ward X. Currently, he is the State Organizing Secretary III of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, Akwa Ibom State.In this interview with our reporter, he bares his mind on the forthcoming LG elections among others… Q. Good evening Sir, with regards to the fact that some faction of people are saying that Odoro Ikono people reached an agreement some years back that whenever an Odoro Ikono son clinch the number one seat in the local government area that he must go for second term, with emphasis on Hon Emman Ebe, how true is this assertion? A. Thank you my brother, the information is absolutely wrong, the person does not know the history of zoning in Ini Local Government. I was a staff of Ini Local Government Council, later resigned as a staff, contested for councillorship election in the local government and won to represent Ukwok ward 10. I served as a supervisor, as well as a vice chairman in the same local government, though it was just for two months. And my regime was a parliamentary system of government, where we had the head of council, as the head of local government in person of Emman Ebe. It comes a time there was a little fracas in the local government, Hon. Emmanuel Ebe was kept aside as Chairman and the Vice Chairman appointed as the head of council and I deputized him within the short period of two months before Emmanuel Ebe returned back. I am here to explain to the young generation of zoning in Ini for avoidance of doubt, where most of them may be wrongly informed. In Ini LGA, we have two state constituencies: the first is Ini proper which is comprises of five wards, with two sub zones, three wards called, Iwerre, Nkari and Itu Mbonuso otherswise known as Mbueyin. The other two which is Ikpe 1 and Ikpe 2 clan with two wards. The second is Ikono North II Constituency which comprises of Ukwok 9 and 10 while the second subzone is called Odoro Ikono North 1, 2 & 3. These are the two subzones in Ikono North II State Constituency. This is how we meet our turns in terms of zoning in Ini LGA, if the chairman comes from Odoro Ikono constituency, the house of assembly seat must zone to Ini Proper. It has always been like that without any encumbrances. It is only the seat of the state house of assembly that is allowed to go for two tenures. We however believe that since there are ten wards in Ini, the seat of the chairmanship is always being rotating to different wards in the same zone. This is because; we believe that the seat of the local government area is nearer to the people in the grassroots. So it is on practice that it goes concurrently across the entire wards in Ini. Example, the sitting Chairman in the person of Israel Idaisin is from Odoro Ikono Ward 7, he will not be allowed to go for second term but the seat will still be retain in Odoro Ikono Constituency, but different ward which is Ukwok Ward 10. Let me explain the misconception, Emman Ebe did not go for two term, in the administration of Emman Ebe, whom they feel went for two term. During the first tenure of Emmanuel Ebe who happens to come from Odoro Ikono North II (Ward 6), there was problem caused by the councilors in the local government. The Akwa Ibom State Government adjudicated over the matter, but could not solve the fracas immediately. The state government has to stop the salaries of both the councilors and chairman for complete three years. The money was actually paid into the government treasury until that tenure elapsed. So, Emmanuel Ebe sought from all means to go back to the council to complete his term successfully. Though, it couldn’t work for him to that extant. Akwa Ibom State Government later changed the system from Presidential System of Government to Parliamentary System of Government, whereby you have to contest as a councilor from your ward. And Emmanuel Ebe did that. Maybe that is why people might claim that he served in the council two terms; it is a lie! He came to the council as a councilor, because of Parliamentary System of Government then. I was also a councilor then, not just a councilor but a leading councilor in that administration. When he (Emman Ebe) came to the council, I was supposed to have been the chairman because in the Electoral College, I had the majority which was 6 out of 10. That could’ve given me the position as a chairman, but because Emman Ebe was sympathized and to be compensated because from the first year, to the last year of the three years he was not in office. He wasn’t in office at all, so he was to be compensated! That was why we the councilors have to compensate and voted him as the Head of Council in the Electoral College. This was just all about compensation and sympathy. It was not general election! That was how he came back that people claim he was elected for the second term. So, after that the chairmanship seat rotates concurrently and across the ten wards. And if somebody was supposed to have contested for second term, it could have been Late Chief Boniface Essien (Aqua Resort); whom after he was voted into the council under the platform of ANPP, later defected to the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP). He would’ve been the one to be voted back for second term in Ini Proper, because he had the privileged to have complained that he should be allow for it since he is going to contest under the PDP for the first time. But, Ini people collectively rejected him for second term. This is because it is an established zoning practice that nobody should contest chairmanship position twice, same thing applicable to wards; and people rejected Boniface Essien of Ikpe Ward 2 for Etetim Awatim of Iwerre ward 5. He had all guts to have complained to people that he wants to contest afresh from PDP. But there was no way. And Etetim Awatim was later voted to succeed him. So, if actually there is anybody who is campaigning for second term, Ini Local Government Area does not accept second term from chairmanship. It is resourceful for such a man to channel his horizon to solve the problems of Ini rather than clamoring for an impossible struggle. Q. Could you please shade more light on the chairmanship development in the LG? A. Now, look at this, Chief Ukata Sam Akpan was the first elected chairman, Rt. Hon. Paul Owo, Bambolo, Emman Ebe, Boniface Essien and Etetim Awatim, all did only one term. Where the idea of second term is derived from is now what I don’t know, as such has never been in practice. Q. Do you have any interest in the chairmanship race. And are you the only aspirant so far from Ukwok? A. Yes, everybody venture into the political space with interest. Politics itself is a game of interest. So, I have interest to contest the forthcoming chairmanship election. In the roll, we have for now in the PDP, myself, CSP Asuquo Inyang Rtd and Mr. Lawrence Udoide. You can see now that it is the turn ward 10 to elect the next local government chairman. Q. Why are you in the race, and what are your past precedents that gives you such confidence that you will be voted as the next chairman of Ini? A. Thank you very much, I am in the contest as one in a million because I know that I am the most popular aspirant. Q. Could you please pinpoint your past records let’s see? A. When I was a councilor, I was able to train five indigenes of Ukwok ward 10 in the tertiary institution, I can mention their names. I also sponsored two from Odoro Ukwok ward 9, since I felt that Ukwok is one. Apart from that if giving people motorcycles could be called empowerment, I have given five motorcycles to five people in Ukwok ward 10 and I have them around to testify. I also looked out how to unite our people together; I founded a group called “Atafia”, which is still in existing till present. In that I was looking for means of reaching out to people both in Ukwok 9 and 10 respectively. I also trained some people in different skills acquisition and gave them working tools, which if I mention some of them, you may know them. Few years ago, there was a boy the former PDP ward chairman (Rock) brought to me, which I trained him as an aluminum fabricator and he is now operating his shop in Ikot Ekpene as I speak. That of Ukwok ward 9, because I didn’t want a division, I picked one at Ikot Idut while the other one from Ikot Andem, which unfortunately he is late. Recently, because of the limited power in me, I have facilitated and championed the donation of land to the state government for cocoa plantation, which about thirty of our youths from Ukwok has been employed with the salary stipends of N30,000 each. I also gave scholarship to child from Ikot Antia up to tertiary institution. I think, with the little I have done, if given good position of authority, I have all it takes to salvage my people from impending situations. Q. What do you have to say about the impassable road network in your community? A. Okay, at Akon in Abaitiat, where the dilapidated bridge is almost in a state of collapse, I have volunteered to tip three trips of sand and hardcore stones to see how I can reduce the situation. Although, it has stayed a bit, but as at then, I didn’t look for any assistanxce from anybody, rather I only called on the youth to assist to level the sand and stones, which effort out of appreciation Late Bishop Emmanuel Udoekong of blessed memory also bought a trip of sand to pour thereat. I am of the opinion that I have what it takes to help my people and my community provided god is able to put me in a good position of authority. Thank you! Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 