Press Release Let me Specially appreciate God Almighty,the creator of the Universe for his benevolence and grace towards the victory we achieved today In the Appeal Court which sat in Calabar and upheld the judgment of the lower Court, the Tribunal and affirmed the mandate my dear people freely gave to me on March 9, 2019, during the House of Assembly elections. I return all Glory to God Almighty. Let me also appreciate the Leader of our Party, His Excellency, Governor Udom Emmanuel for his support and encouragement towards the success of today’s victory in appellate court and throughout the legal tussle which his support is incomparable. I also appreciate our beloved son and the Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State, His Excellency, Mr. Moses Ekpo for his resilience and support to the success of the victory. Let me also appreciate the Panel of Judges for their unbiased judgment and for proving to the world that the court is not just the court of law but the court of justice. For the deserved justice on the mandate of the people of Abak State Constituency which they freely gave to me with trust and confidence. I also Specially appreciate our great Party,the People’s Democratic Party(PDP),from the State Working Committee led by our Dependable State Chairman,Obong Paul Ekpo and our Local Working Committee led by our dear Chapter Chairman in Abak Local Government Area, Dr Mike Udoh to the the Ward Executives and all the leaders of our great party,the support of this great family is very enormous and I feel proud and delighted to be a member of this beloved and united family. I also wish to especially appreciate my brother in the upper legislative house, Hon(Elder)Aniekan Umanah, My Predecessor and beloved brother in the struggle, Rt(Hon) Elder Friday Iwok for their uncountable commitment and support towards the success of this victory. I also commend the Grace Mandate family led by our indefatigable Director-General, Pastor Ekerette Inyang for their steadfastness and resilience.I cherish your support greatly. To our formidable legal team led by Ndaeyo Ndaeyo(Esq), to the legal team of our great party led by Barr. Godwin Umoh, your wisdom, sagacity, and experience In preserving the mandate of Abak State Constituency people is overwhelming and we appreciate you all greatly for your significant role in the victory of today. Finally, I will like to especially appreciate my lovely wife whose support has been uncommon, Deaconess Margaret Otong and my family, I am indeed happy for the show of love during the times of the legal tussle. My friends, associates, and supporters across Abak State Constituency, your support, encouragement, and love shall remain evergreen in my life. Now the legal distractions are over, it’s time for us to continue representing our people effectively in the hallowed chamber of the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly and to keep our campaign promises of running a people-oriented and focused representation and to carry everyone along in the scheme of things.I extend an olive branch to my dear brother, Barr Victor Nkanang and all members of the All Progressives Congress(APC) and urge them to know that there was no victor and no vanquished. Your unrelenting spirit gives room for a vibrant democracy. I appreciate your ideas, suggestions and constructive criticism towards making Abak State Constituency great and to take it to the destined height it rightly deserves. I can’t do it alone and my doors are open for everyone irrespective of political inclination. I thank you all once again for this Overwhelming Love throughout the legal period and I promise that I shall not take this love for granted and shall reciprocate it by ensuring dividends of democracy is brought to our people and the voice of the good people of Abak State Constituency shall continue to be heard. I remain indebted to you all and I am humbled by your support and prayers. May God Bless Abak State Constituency, Akwa Ibom State and the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Hon(Elder)Comrade Udeme Otong(Jp,Fcai)
Chairman, House Committee on Health and Member Representing Abak State Constituency in Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 