… Our long expected Moses By Itoro Udotim The Holy Book opines that; During the era where Christianity was seen as a taboo, Apostle Paul travelled far and wide, taking Christianity to rural and urban communities around the world, simultaneously performing miracles that paved ways for many repentance and declaration of Christ as their sole personal savior without hesitation. In May 29, 2019, Akwa Ibomites at home and in the diaspora witnessed the reincarnation of Apostle Paul of old sprouted in Governor Udom Emmanuel with the desire, passion, zeal and enthusiasm to lead the people of Akwa Abasi Ibom State to their land of fulfilment. Beginning his second (term) missionary journey, Governor Udom Emmanuel pledged to voyage the nooks and crannies of Akwa Ibom State with the starve of Moses in his hand to command thoroughfares, where seems eminently difficult, so as to disappoint the rumormongers from the cocoon of fugacious fugitivity who did not only doubt the possibility of his return, but conclusively and destructively regarded his industrialization policy as a scam. Governor Udom Emmanuel, within the short span of time in office, has changed the story of our dear State from a basically civil service state to an industrial hub, concomitantly creating job opportunities through the establishment of visible cottage industries, construction of major roads, and free health care services for pregnant women across the ten (10) federal constituencies of the state, indefatigably revamping some good number of abandoned schools and cottage hospitals that were previously used as dump sites. The Governor has successfully made the state a safe haven for investors, as Akwa Ibom is adjudged the most peaceful state in Nigeria, hence the influx of industries in the state. Some of the industries include the Lion Plywood and Timber Factory, Flour Mill, Syringe factory which is the largest in Africa, and several others across the state. On road infrastructure, in Obot Akara local government, contract was awarded to an indigenous contractor Engr. Samuel Inyang, of Seyang Limited to tackle severe Erosion, Seasonal Swamp Area, Replacement of 2 Collapsed Bridges, and Construct 6.41km Road. Today Nto Edino – Ekwereazu road stands tall as the pride of the community, with a twin 300m span bridge posing as the longest bridge in the state with an incredible aesthetic appeal. The once death trap, has suddenly become the major route linking Akwa Ibom and by extension Cross River State, with the South East and the rest of Nigeria, as not just the safest but also the shortest route after the failure of Ikot Ekpene -Umuahia and Ikot Ekpene-Aba roads. Development had been a mirage in Obot Akara for over 15 years, until Governor Udom Emmanuel came on board. Ini Local Government Area, in Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, in the time past, merely existed in the map of the State. It was a political capital for politicians to always visit and make wild promises that will remain unattended till the next political season. Today, the story of the people from the area and even other states has changed for good courtesy of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s deliberate policy of spreading infrastructure through all the nooks and crannies of the state. The construction of the 14.1km Odoro Ikpe – Ikpe Ikot Nkon – Obotme – Arochukwu Road with 110m bridge is the best thing that has ever happened to the people in over fifty years. The people of the area, the neighbouring communities from Arochukwu in Abia state and environs, now have easier access for the transportation of their agricultural produce, to other parts of the country. With about 9km of the project nearly ready, allowing the road for a full rainy season, has enabled the construction company to fully study the soil nature and concerns of that route, with a view to quality assurance in its full execution. Beyond this, the road is only an appetizer for the other roads like the Ikot Nseyen – Ibakachi – Ikot Esen – Urua Edet Road spans Ini through Ikono and measures 7.72km. Others are the Urua Naira – Ikot Nseyen – Ikot Umo Essien – Nkwot – Nung Ukim Road and 45m span bridge. Against all odds, end is in sight for the 25km Uyo – Ikot Ekpene Road. With less than 2km remaining of the stretch, Ikot Ekpene people are already anticipating a new vista of economic development and urban renewal. The road coming with numerous furniture and trappings of modern architecture, is handled by Julius Berger. Having navigated through the achievements of his administration, I make bold to say; “Governor Udom Emmanuel is really the best that Akwa Ibom deserved”. Therefore; It is imperatively pertinent to give the peace currently enjoyed in the State, a chance, instead of presenting the Udom Emmanuel-led administration as precarious to the outside world. Udom Emmanuel is not a governor of PDP, but a governor to all Akwa Ibomites who is unarguably ready to welcome everyone with useful ideas that will help project the state to an unimagined pedestal. Here you can say,’ a realm of extraordinary achievements’. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 