Indigenes of Eket and Onna Local Government Areas in Akwa Ibom have commended Gov Udom Emmanuel for embarking on road construction in their domains. The people who spoke in separate interviews with our reporter in the aforementioned areas, Tuesday, commended the governor for the construction of the 2.7km Ikot Odiong-Ikot Abasi Road in Eket Local Government Area handled by Zerock Construction Company and 13.5km Ikot Ebiere-Ikot Edor-Ikot Iko Ibom-Akom-Ukpana-Ikwe Road with 15 metres span bridge, cutting across Onna and Mkpat Enin Local Government Areas by Ber Jin Construction Company (BJCC).
Others include; 3.3km Idua Road in Eket by Limbech Development Nigeria Limited as well as the 3.0km Ebekpe-Ikot Eket Rd in Eket Local Government Area by Zerock Construction company, among others. Construction works on the aforementioned roads had since commenced and were nearing completion when the inspection team led by the commissioner for works, Mr. Ephraim Inyang-eyen visited, Wednesday.
A 53-year-old businessman from Eket Local Government Area, Mr Emmanuel Edoho, described the construction work on the 2.7km Ikot Odiong-Ikot Abasi Road in Eket, “as good, perfect and going on well.” His words: “I want to thank the Akwa Ibom government for this very good work. It is about the first time since the state was created in 1987 that the government is coming to this community to construct a road, despite the fact that we have been voting for the ruling party since the state’s creation, but no one seemed to remember us after elections. We are very grateful to Gov Udom Emmanuel for remembering us.” A cleric of The Apostolic Church from Ikwe, Mkpat Enin Local Government Area, Rev Ezekiel Udofia, was of the opinion that the governor is God-send to the people of the state. “I can state unequivocally that the Almighty God is happy with Gov Udom Emmanuel for this massive 13.5km road which connects Mkpat Enin and Onna Local Government Areas. He is God-send and my prayer is that the good Lord should give him more wisdom and strength to do more for the good people of Akwa Ibom State who voted en masse for him in the last governorship election’’ The clergyman, however, urged the contractors handling the 13.5km Ikot Ebiere-Ikot Edor-Ikot Iko Ibom-Akom-Ukpana-Ikwe Road with 15 metres span bridge, Ber Jin Construction Company (BJCC), to lay stone base on about 800 metres of the road remaining because of the condition of the road and challenges residents face whenever it rains. Meantime, the commissioner for works, Inyan-eyen, has urged contractors working on all the state’s road projects to ensure that the work done meets the required standard.
Inyang-eyen, who was accompanied by some top officials from the ministry including the permanent secretary, Mr John Itiat, directors and engineers, were already seen on sites about 11am, Tuesday. Expressing satisfaction at the level of work done by the contractors, the commissioner urged them to ensure early completion within the stipulated time. He specifically lauded the state governor, Emmanuel, for embarking on the road projects, saying when completed the socio-economic development of the areas would be boosted in the rural areas and agrarian communities. “It is well known that some of the beneficiary communities of these road projects are food baskets that are especially good at palm produce, cassava, coconut and so many others. Unfortunately, there has been no access road to evacuate their farm produce or encourage value-adding firms to be set up around the communities to boost agriculture and help diversify the economy and create employment. “Today, you can see the number of youths coming out to show solidarity to their governor for making good his promise to construct the road to boost agriculture and economic diversification agenda,” Inyang-eyen said. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 