… Miners Set for dialogue, resolve to partner Govt By Nelson NseAbasi and Itoro Udoaka Miners in Akwa Ibom state are set to unite to form a common front to partner government to better their operations and harvest. The decision was made rising from the meeting of unions of miners in the state held on Friday, November 8, 2019 at the conference hall of the Federal Secretariat Uyo. This is following the resolve of Akwa Ibom state government to regulate the mining of solid minerals in it’s domain from November 4, 2019. The meeting was conveyed on the aegis of the ministry of transport, having appointed Abstract Works Group to oversee the regulation of mining activities, collate a data base of miners, engage stake holders and unions on how to improve on their operations in the state. The Commissioner for Transport & Solid Minerals,Rt. Hon. Uno Uno had hinted on radio during an interview on the program, Akwa Ibom Rising on Inspiration 105.9 FM, where he said that by these initiatives, government will through the ministry, in collaboration with unions and related agencies, chart a course for miners in the state. In pursuit of the aforementioned, the state government appointed an agent to carry out the implementation of the process, which includes collection of database of mining sites, both functional and abandoned, seek measures to ensure the protection of the environment from the negative effect of mining. It could be recalled that there has been an uncontrolled operations of miners in the state, which gave birth to he need for government to regulate their activities. The database of miners is expected to assist the government to create favourable policies, discover and explore solid minerals in the state, venture into new market and control environmental degradation caused by activities of the miners. At the meeting, the miners, through leaders of various groups, stated the need to form an alliance with government and other stakeholders. In their various speeches, the Secretary, Barr. Frederick Nkobowo and Captain John Etim called on the Chairman of Akwa Ibom State Miners Association, Elder Edem Obot to make drastic efforts to put his house in order, in other to collaborate with government. The executive of the miners and related unions agreed to have a closed door meeting, before rescheduling another general meeting. #SolidMinerals
#AkwaIbomMiners
#CompletionAgenda Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 