By Nelson NseAbasi Sporadic Entertainment has dedicated the last four (4) years to celebrating outstanding personalities in the second largest and oil rich city in Akwa Ibom State – Eket, through the Eket All Star Music Awards (EASMA). This Sunday, November 24, 2019, all roads will lead to Villa Marina Hotel Eket for another exciting edition of the annual awards designed to spotlight persons and groups who have continued to proudly fly the flag of the city in their various fields of endeavor. This year, borrowing lines from the theme song of the ‘ enigma ‘ themed 5th edition of the award, ‘like a rainbow’, the award splashes color on the city’s talents as a pat on the back. According to the progenitor Mr Victor Sporadic, these ones deserve commendations for staying put in the city, giving it a face and helping it to build a brand and maintain it’s pride of place as the second most vibrant city in the state after the state capital – Uyo. The name Eket (Ekid) refers to the indigenous ethnic group of the region and to their language. The city itself, an industrial city that in recent years has become a conurbation engulfing separate villages, has a population of over 200,000, while the entire urban area, which covers Okon, Nsit Ubium, Idua, Afaha Eket and Esit Eket has a combined population of 364,489, the second largest urban population in Akwa Ibom state. As such, all talents, brands and/or businesses operating in the city can rely on this audience as a sure market, before reaching out to nearby cities, state capital and states. Eket All Stars Music Awards will bring all these talents and stakeholders under one roof to appreciate their ingenuity and encourage them to continually grow the brand – Eket. The award ceremony will feature exciting performances by a rare crop of talents, presentation of competitive and honorary awards to deserving persons. The Commissioner for Culture & Tourism, Hon Orman Esin, Eket Local Government Area council Chairman, Hon Frank Archibong are notable amongst the special guests expected to grace the occasion and join others to enjoy the performances and presentations. It is an open invitation to come savour the hospitality of the ‘ white people’ of Akwa Ibom, as they are fondly called.
Keep a date. #AkwaIbomToTheWorld Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 