…as Ritman Varsity holds 1st convocation The Executive Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr Udom Emmanuel has charged pioneer graduands of Ritman University to jealously guard and uphold the virtues of character, intergrity and honour, if they must live a happy and fulfilled life. The three elements, he said, are the prime concerns of the larger world after which the Grade Point Average (GPA) can be taken into account. Governor Udom gave the charge on Saturday at the maiden convocation ceremony of Ritman University, Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area. Ably represented by the Deputy Governor of the State, Mr Moses Ekpo after he earlier excused himself and members of the State Executive Council to attend an urgent event, Udom who pressed on the high demand for character, intergrity and honour in all spheres of life and endeavour, told the graduands, these virtues should never be in deficit. “Three critical elements will make you a very happy and fulfilled member of a highly competitive and shrinking world, character, intergrity and honour. These three element will be the first set of of ideals your recruiter or future business partner will look at before your GP and these three should never be in short supply or you will constantly receive the sure end of the stick inspite of your glowing credentials.” While he congratulated the 14 graduands who have successfully completed their first degree programmes in the University, the State Chief Executive assured that, “The State Government will continue to put more modalities to make all Akwa Ibom children achieve their dreams while aiming for qualitative education.” He advised the graduands to continually keep abreast with innovations in their field, explore new knowledge and be ready to learn from those who have a good wealth of experience. Udom thanked the Iniitiator of the institution, the Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor, the Senate, the Governing Council, the entire management and the staff of the University for their unremitting devotion and strict adherence to academic excellence, noting that academic excellence has been the institution’s hallmark. Advising the graduands, the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs and Chancellor of the citadel of learning, Senator Godswill Akpabio, told them, “To stay away from the motley crowd of greedy, selfish individuals who can sell their communities for crumbs from the table of selfish politicians.” He spoke on the need for a paradigm shift, maintaining that the country hope on the Nigerian Universities to carryout the needed psycho-social reengineering of the mindsets of many Nigerians. Senator Effiong Bob, Chairman, Board of Trustees, who was grateful for the feat the institution has achieved, encouraged everyone to contribute their quota for the sustanance and advancement of the institution. The Pro-Chancellor of the University, Prof. Nsongurua Udombana emphasized that the University is committed to changing the ugly trends in society in view of making progress and competing globally. Appreciating the parents of the graduands, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Celestine Ntuen,FIIE, thanked them for devoting their resources in ensuring that their children get the best of education. He, as well, thanked the Students for having faith in institution. He expressed optimism that the institution will record many more strides. The visibly elated Founder of the institution, Senator Emmanuel Ibok Essien, FNSE, noted that the Saturday, 30th November, 2019, is a memorable day in his life and the lives of the premier students of the Institution. Essien who thanked God for making the long awaited vision of the school come to fruition, said the day will ever remain green in the annals of Ritman College. At the event, the former Governor of Kano State, Senator Ibrahim Shekarau and Sir Effiong Afiakurue Ikpoto were awarded with Doctorate Degrees in Science and Business Administration respectively. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 