By Aniefiok Macaulay Upon assumption of office in 2015, Gov. Udom Emmanuel reassured the Akwa Ibom people that his coming into office marks a new dawn for the State. He avowed to transform Akwa Ibom state into an industrial hub, the best in West African sub-region. He also promised to sustain public-private sector initiative thereby opening up opportunity for growth and improved standard of living. Apparently more than four years later, he has achieved what he promised especially in the Agricultural sector where he had earlier promised to revamped. Having taken bold steps to ensuring food security and agricultural transformation in the state, he has concurrently ensured economy diversity with the idea of maintaining a sustainable economy should incase the oil market hits inflation or probably drifts into extinction. Akwa Ibom state is blessed with vast and fertile land with an all year- round favorable climatic condition. This favours all year round cultivation and harvesting of agricultural produce such as; Rubber, cocoa, yam, maize, rice, palm produce, coconut, plantain, banana, cassava and timber. Agriculture was a sector of the State yet to be tapped. Through sustainable agricultural policies, Gov. Udom Emmanuel’s administration has been able to create employment opportunities, industrial hubs and food security for the Akwa Ibom people. This, the State has moved from being a heavily dependent state ( On federal allocation) to one that is self sufficient and revenue-generating. Gov. Udom Emmanuel upon assumption of office declared a state of emergency in the agricultural sector of the state targeting food sufficiency, welfare of the people, export and economic development to which resulted in a vast turn around in agricultural processes in the state. The Gov. Udom led administration has made available agricultural loans to help improve and encourage agricultural practices in the state, although the majority of the populace agrarian in nature rely on subsistent agriculture. Their enormous potentials are being utilized for commercial and mechanized farming for cash crops such as; yam, cassava, rice, tomatoes, plantain, rubber and cocoa as well as animal production, poultry and fish farming. The agricultural revolution has taken over the state by storm as the Gov. Udom led administration has created a 11, 000 hectares of coconut plantation, with about 2 million stands of coconut ready for cultivation. Proceeds from the plantation will serve as raw materials for the coconut refinery. At full capacity, the refinery will process 300, 000 coconuts in a day. This is a huge foreign exchange earner as virgin coconut oil is highly priced in the international market. The State government has been able to secure 2,100 hectares of land for cassava plantation across the 31 local government areas, and has supplied improved and disease resistance cassava stems to Farmers so as to improve its production. To complement this project, the government embarked on the construction of 33 cassava micro processing mills and the refurbishing of the cassava processing plants in Ikot Okudom in Eket local government, Nung Udoe in Ibesikpo Asutan local government, as well as Ikot Ekang in Abak local government Area. These factories were leased to private sector operators for the production of high quality garri, odourless fufu and cassava flour. To further showcase his zeal to boost Agricultural revolution in the State, His Excellency the governor had said that owning a large hectare of farm is one of his prerequisites for giving anyone a political appointment. This has sent the political class, civil servants and youths into taking active part in agriculture. It can be said without reasonable doubt that the Udom Emmanuel led administration has ensured the agricultural sustainability of Akwa Ibom state, and diversification of the economy leading to the reduction in cost of living. This has also ensured employment opportunities alongside an enabling environment for businesses to thrive. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 