PDP Gov’s Forum set for 2019 IGR Summit … Dr Peter Obi to deliver keynote address on IGR options in a recessed economy By Nelson NseAbasi The PDP Governors Forum is set to host the 2019 Edition of its annual IGR Summit in Abuja at the BON Hotel Stratton, (formerly Protea Hotel), Asokoro on Wednesday and Thursday, November 27-28, 2019. The information is confirmed in a statement released on Tuesday by the Summit Organizing Committee and signed by Patrick Okon on behalf of the Forum. The former Governor of Anambra State and 2019 Vice Presidential candidate of the PDP, Dr. Peter Obi, the Chairman of the Summit, will also deliver the keynote address on the theme “The Imperatives of Developing Internally-Generated Revenue Options for State Governments in a Recessed Economy”. The statement in part reads: ‘’The current economic reality in the country has more than ever informed the need for the forum’s initiative to escalate same for public discourse at the upcoming summit. It added that: “The challenge of declining internally-generated revenue and the need to boost alternative sources of income for the PDP-governed states outside reliance on the monthly federal government allocation will be receiving adequate attention at the converge. “It will also strive to define the extant possibilities and proffer fresh initiatives to increase revenue for economic growth and development in the states. Titled “The Imperatives of Developing Internally-Generated Revenue Options for State Governments in a Recessed Economy”, the summit which is facilitated by the PDP Governors Forum and managed by Messrs Red Sapphire Nigeria Limited, in conjunction with the Producers of high-profile Finance programme, “Money Line on AIT”, will parade the Finance expert, Nancy Iloh as Summit Anchor. Key Resource persons and Finance Experts with tested knowledge and transfer experience drawn from the IGR/Finance Sector have been penciled down to deliver thought–provoking papers and case studies to address as well as proffer enduring and sustainable solutions; aside crafting fresh ideas for the development, generation and effective application of digital formats to improve internally-generated revenue (IGR) strategies and platforms in the states and local government areas (LGAs) in a recessed economy. The expected participants are – State Commissioners of Finance, Trade/Investments, Budget/Economic Planning, Tourism and Local Governments/Chieftaincy Affairs; National/State Assembly Committee Chairmen on Local Governments whose input will generally provide statutory and parliamentary backing for the major determinants and considerations on IGR Resources; SSAs on Trade/Investments, Economy, Finance and Revenue Generation; LGA Chairmen/ Secretaries, as well as Heads of State Boards of Internally-Generated Revenue and Senior Executives engaged in the Development and Management of Rural Economy amongst others. The high-profile summit will feature the Governor of Bayelsa State and Chairman of PDP Governors Forum, Hon. Henry Seriake Dickson as the Chief Host of the summit, and the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus as the Special Guest of Honour. Mr. Akinyele Oladeji, an IGR Expert and Managing Consultant/Country Representative of Canadian Software Development Corporation (CSDC Consulting Nigeria) will lead a coterie of frontline speakers, session chairmen, faculty members and renowned IGR/Finance Experts cum Consultants drawn from allied and related agencies.  #PDPGovernorsForum
#PDPGovernorsForumIGRsummit
#PDPIGRSummit2019 Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 