By Nelson NseAbasi The Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Culture & Tourism , Hon. Orman Esin has declared that the administration of Governor Udom Emmanuel will make Akwa Ibom State the entertainment hub of Nigeria nay Africa. Mr Esin made the statement when he appeared as guest on the weekly development diary program, Akwa Ibom Rising on Inspiration 105.9 FM. The Tourism and Culture Commissioner on Monday, November 4, 2019 dissected issues related to his ministry and presented a blue print for tourism development and marketing of destinations in the state. Orman fills a vacuum that had remained empty for long and in high demand of a miracle worker to take the spot. His appointment had already been referred to as a square peg in a square hole, owing to his antecedents in the entertainment industry, media & publishing and his success in his previous ministry, Transport & Petroleum. The radio interview with Emma Solution is his first interview since news and materials from his ministry announced a fun-filled plan for Christmas in Akwa Ibom State. On the show, the magazine publisher, event guru cum politician reeled out plans for Christmas In Akwa Ibom, highlighting series of events that will light up the state during the yuletide. Speaking on the blue print for the tourism industry, he said “what we intend to do is identify the treasures, our topography and ambience, our cuisine and so on, after identifying our potentials in the tourism sector, we would now have to market it, and so first, we will start with what we call “Internal Tourism”… By marketing to our people within, before pushing it out to the world for people to come and see’. He revealed that plans are in the kitty for an App that will be a one-stop shop for anything and everything Akwa Ibom. “For the movie industry, what we will do, is to bring Nollywood to Akwa Ibom, as the best place with peaceful, great infrastructure and rich cuisine, he posited. As you well know, we have started by hosting the Actor’s Guild of Nigeria (AGN) national election last week, parading the big names in Nollywood. Many of them have also promised to bring their movie productions to the state. ” In conclusion, he described the creative industry as a very strong tool to redefine governance and perception of people, saying “Akwa Ibom people first have to believe in themselves, 90% of the people who want to go to America, want to do so because it is entertainment that drives their interest through movies and music videos, as such we have to position our talents to be able to tell and sell our story”. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 