…Flag-off holds Friday Member representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency and Deputy Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Communications, Hon. Unyime Idem, is set to train and empower 5000 constituents. This information was obtained from the Office of the Honourable Member by the Press. The information states that in keeping with his campaign promises, the Ukanafun-born Lawmaker has approved the commencement of training and empowerment of 5000 constituents beginning from December 2019. The statement states that beneficiaries will be drawn from Ukanafun and Oruk Anam LGAs respectively and will be trained on Skills of their choice while Job Applicants will be assisted to gain employment. The major reason for embarking on this massive life-transforming initiative according to the statement is the determination of Hon. Idem to ensure the complete eradication of youth restiveness, insecurity and unemployment in the Federal Constituency through skills acquisition, empowerment and assist beneficiaries to be economically self-reliant, independent, job and wealth creators. Also, Hon. Idem having seen the magnitude of crises that engulfed Ukanafun and its environs for three years is determined to ensure that any re-occurrence is nipped in the bud while the youths are meaningfully engaged through skills acquisition, training and empowerment. The statement further states that on Friday August 23, 2019, at No. 3 Barracks road beside Central Police Station, Ukanafun LGA by 10.00 am, the Federal Lawmaker will officially launch the Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency Skills Acquisition and Empowerment Initiative, the Body that will be charged with the responsibility of executing skills acquisition and empowerment programmes for the next four years. The event which will be chaired by Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem, the Secretary to Government of Akwa Ibom State, will have His Excellency, Mr. Moses Ekpo, MFR as Special Guest of Honour. Other Guests expected includes the Speaker and Members of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Akwa Ibom State Caucus in the National Assembly, Members of the State Executive Council. Others are political leaders and stakeholders of the Federal Constituency, current and past office holders, captains of industries, youths, students and the general public. Information gleaned from the Office of the House of Representatives Member also indicates that during the flag-off exercise, applicants will be issued with empowerment forms to fill and return immediately for documentation and authentication purposes. Recall that during the 2019 National Assembly electioneering, Hon. Idem commissioned Ukanafun/Oruk Anam empowerment centre and made a solemn pledge that if elected, he will help raise the next generation of entrepreneurs and leaders who would become job and wealth creators. It is in keeping to that pledge that this programme is being flagged-off. Ukanafun//Oruk Anam Federal Constituency will no doubt experience bumper harvest of democratic dividends and it will be the first of its kind in South-South Nigeria.
It is truism that Hon. Unyime Idem within few months in the Green Chamber has shown competence, character and willingness-to-serve attitude. Barely a month after being inaugurated, the Telecoms Juggernaut moved a worthy motion on the Need to revamp NIFOR Substation at Oruk Anam. He also made a case for increased budgetary allocation to the Education sector. Only recently, Hon. Idem played host to Finland Ambassador to Nigeria in his Abuja Office and secured commitment from the Finnish government to establish a Technology Institute and ICT hub in Ukanafun. He has promised to give the people effective representation on the floor of the Green Chamber and also ensure that their lives are transformed for the better. Indeed, governance and representation narratives is being changed in Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 