By Vincent Aluu Parents have been tasked to ensure good upbringing of their children to avoid regrets in the days ahead. This charge was handed down by Hon. Unyime Idem, Deputy Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Communications and Technology today, during the dedication of Master Unyimeabasi Nsenam Iwoketok, son of the PDP Youth Leader of Oruk Anam Chapter at Life Builders Assembly, No. 4 Archibong Ikot Idem Street Uyo. Hon. Idem made reference to the Book of Proverbs 22.6 which command parents to train up a child in the way he should go, so when he grows up, he will not depart from it. He decried the spate of insecurity in the country stating that those behind it are from homes and have parents who may have failed in their duty in nurturing them in the right way to go. He said, “As parents, we have a huge responsibility to train our children and inculcate in them good moral virtues that will make them responsible citizens of Nigeria. The family is the first home and school for a child. Whatever we teach such a child is what he will grow up. We must give them good home training and invest in their future. Our characters and lifestyle are the very first bible children will read. It is important for parents to display good moral conduct before children. The failure of the family to help groom the child has contributed significantly to the present security crises we have at hand. Those behind the killings, kidnapping, armed robbery and other anti-social vices in our societies today have families, homes and were even brought to church to be dedicated.” Hon. Idem noted that if the nation must get it right, then parents must invest time and resources to ensure the very best for the child to avoid regrets. He urged parents to always ensure they know the where-about of their children, know what they do at any point in time and know the kind of friends they keep. The Ukanafun-born Parliamentarian decried the current practice where parents have become so busy pursuing career and money thus abdicating their role as guardians to surrogates and house helps. He called for a reversal of this ugly trend and urged parents whose children are involved in killings, kidnapping, armed robbery to call them to order and show them the way of the Lord. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 