By Umani Uwemedimo Nigeria, a massive country with a plethora of diverse tribes and ethnic groups, provides a wealth of name inspiration derived from both local and foreign languages including English language. Nigerian names are exotic and beautiful, not just in meaning and appearance, but also in origin. Children are traditionally named after places, spirits, ancestors, or events occurring during the time of their birth. As a people, Nigerians believe that a name can influence both the life of the child and the family. A simple name will lead to a disappointing future, and an over-ambitious name could cause serious repercussions. In some Nigerian cultures, parents name their children after famous political figures, hoping that their kids would be as successful as their namesakes. The recent economic downturn has become an inspiration for parents to project their hopes and dreams on their kids.  Hence the reason some parents in Nigeria call their children what they wish for the most. Victory, Wealth, Riches, and Favour, are some of the names you will find. There are also other factors that may determine the choice of names. Some of these factors are circumstances/ events that occur before or after the birth, religious affiliations of the new parents, the favourite celebrities of the parents, and the child’s birth order in the family. In Akwa Ibom names like Akpan, Udo, Etukudo, Adiaha readily come to mind correlating with order of birth in the family. It is widely known that Nigerians are passionate people and these passions be it in their way of life, religion or interests. Popular Christian names include God’s-Glory, God-is-Good, etc. These names single out the bearers as die-hard Christians. You shouldn’t be surprised to find names Open Heavens, Yelutide, Alleluyah, Godspower, MightyGod, Breakthrough, Hand of God. These names are supposed to revere God. In 2011, Former President Goodluck Jonathan won the elections and his name became a popular one in the homes of many Nigerians. The reason was not farfetched, as many new parents prayed ‘good luck’ into the lives of their children. His good luck turned him into a poster boy for the latest ‘grass to grace’ story. Goodluck Jonathan was born into a family so poor they couldn’t afford his school shoes. He walked barefooted to school every day. Somehow, everyone believed his name contributed to his good fortune. The former president’s kinsmen in Bayelsa State have gained popularity for their unique names like General, Inspector, Colonel, Heineken, Jubilee, Difference, ThankGod, Worldwide, Government, Confidence, etc. Football as a sport is a great unifying force in Nigeria. People from different ethnicities and social classes love to unite to show their love for the beautiful game. Its popularity and super-high financial remunerations have inspired parents to hope that their kids will turn out like Cristiano Ronaldo, Leonardo Messi, Jay Jay Okocha, etc. Recently, it was reported that a man named his triplet sons after the three greatest players in Manchester United Football Club. His sons are named after football idols Ryan Giggs, Ole Gunnar Solksjaer and Eric Cantona. Thinking about it, It would have been pretty difficult for him to explain to his Yoruba neighbors that  ‘Ole’ was nowhere related to pilfering and stealing as it means ‘thief’ in Yoruba. Some families make sure that some names are represented in each generation, meaning that someone has to bear the name in every generation. Circumstances and events before or after the birth of the child can also influence the name of the child. Akwa Ibomites have kept faith with the Nigerian naming traditions though some raise a lot of dust regarding the rational behind names like Ndarake (I am not rejoicing), Inò (thief), Iná (sexual intercourse), Ifót (wizard), Edet (teeth), Ibók (medicine or drugs or poison), Okon (night), Ita (three), Ekpo (masquerade). There are also names that are inspired by animals; Enang(cow), Inim(parrot), Ekpe(Lion) etc. Translating some of these names into English brings some level of curiosity especially when one has a sordid combination of two more of those names. These combinations has a way of seemingly infiltrating the psyche of the bearer to make them act their names translation script . Little wonder then that people like Ita Enang ( his first and surname translated to mean three cows) are so fascinated about the contentious RUGA policy despite the large section of the sane society being against it. In living up to his name, Mr. Enang has also clearly demonstrated his shallow mental ability spiced with an acute diarrhoea of the mouth. His incessant vituperations against the Akwa Ibom State Government clearly paints a picture of a man who is either suffering extreme dementia or is a pathological liar! The latest of his slander of the person and office of the Governor of Akwa Ibom state; and by extension the government of the state, is a clear example of a man living up to his name. The Akwa Ibom state Government has; since May 2015 displayed a strict commitment to transparency, accountability and upholding a high degree of integrity through its practice of full financial disclosure of its financial dealings. It is common knowledge that Akwa Ibom State Government is one of a handful of states; if not the only state in Nigeria, to publish its annual audited financial statement. For the benefits of mischievous minds like Ita Enang, a financial statement audit is the examination of an entity’s financial statements and accompanying disclosures by an independent auditor. The result of this examination is a report by the auditor, attesting to the fairness of presentation of the financial statements and related disclosures. The current administration in the state has variously been celebrated for its upright virtue including an intergrity and national honor awards in the banquet hall of the Aso Rock Villa. This has been a major contributor to the avalanche of investors that have thronged to the state in the last 4years. While it is not surprising that characters like Ita Enang believe in mudsling and contemptuous slander, after all cows are never reputed to be of good behaviours. Figuratively, Mr. Enang’s firmed nauseating behavior is akin to combination of the souls of three cows in the soul of one man hence his obtuse romance with radio stations and foul mouthed utterances. For a man who spent 16years in the National Assembly only to condescend to being a file carrier in the corridors of Aso Rock until recently when he was booted out to a portfolio that has neither a budget line nor staff compliments; the three cows in him must be suffering from the dreaded mad cow disease. The good news is that Nigerians have found out what Akwa Ibomites already knew that – No right thinking person would align with Ita Enang’ warped line of thoughts and utterances. This; probably, may have been the real reason he was kicked out of Aso Rock. Akwa Ibomites are peaceful people with a rich cultural heritage of intergrity, hardwork and respect. Three Cows ( Ita Enang) obviously is not a true Akwa Ibomite. Umani Uwemedimo writes from Abak, Akwa Ibom State. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 