By Umani Uwemedimo After series of tactics to cow the Tribunal Chairman became fruitless, Ernest Ojukwu, SAN, Counsel to Mr.Nsima Ekere and APC, on sensing his poor run and anticipated ridicule by his client(s), attempted to pilfer some exhibits at the confines of the Tribunal Panel without the consent and knowledge of the Chairman. While the Chairman of Tribunal, Justice A. M. Yakubu expressed his disappointments over this uncouth character, it was left for Ernest Ojukwu to have pleaded with the Tribunal Chairman for forgiveness but instead, he was striving to justify his ill act with unsubstantiated mitigation. Thus, the Chairman ordered the clerk to take the exhibited documents to a safer location. This caused an outburst of laughter amidst supporters.” Keenly following the proceedings at the ongoing governorship Tribunal sitting in Uyo, has made me deduced thus, the APC gubernatorial candidate in the State, Nsima Ekere has no case or whatever against INEC, Gov. Udom Emmanuel and PDP. What we’ve experienced so far at the same Tribunal is nothing but dramatic displays by jobless jesters. The worst scenario occurred for APC supporters in the State the day Nsima Ekere, their gubernatorial candidate appeared before the Tribunal to also testify. While many believed that would provide a possibility for his petition to see the light of the day, the outcome became so catastrophic that his supporters were sent to an abysmal perplexity. Nsima Ekere who was seen after the election wailing incessantly how his mandate was stolen even when he was leading his opponents in twenty six (26) Local Government Areas of the State, while filing his petition to the governorship Tribunal Committee, pleaded that the election results in 29 Local Government Areas should be cancelled, except in Etim Ekpo and Essien Udim where he claimed victory. It was indeed a sorrowful moment when Nsima Ekere mounted the witness box to acquaint the Judges how there was no election in totality. He claimed no one across the polling units of the State went through the processes of accreditation which automatically denotes that there was no election. Nsima Ekere being a psychopath failed to recapture his previous statements outside the court room, and the petition he filed against his opponents. Ekere also failed to recollect that other of his hired witnesses had testified before their lordships that they took active part in the electioneering processes even to the signing of election results. He failed woefully the moment he failed to reconsider all the documents submitted to the Panel to prove that election was duly conducted in the State. Knowing too well the unrecoverable state which Nsima’s testimony has put himself, his lead Counsel, J. S. Okutepa, SAN descended on him with a mighty public rebuke. He had failed to take into cognisance, his lead Counsel’s sweat to call him to order. J. S. Okutepa lamented bitterly how Nsima Ekere’s testimony has automatically altered and thwarted the little efforts he made in order to make the case see a glimmer of light. Nsima was chided by his Senior Lawyer for not adhering to instructions but in return, Nsima apportioned the blames on his Lead Counsel. He claimed Okutepa was unable to properly school him on what to say. He expressed his hidden dissatisfaction on his Lawyers to an extent that he was begging the Tribunal Chairman to guide him and also offer him some protection. ” My Lord, please I need some protection”, Nsima Ekere screamed repeatedly while in the witness box. But how would ONE be schooled or guided from the woes he planted for himself with his lies? Knowing too well the irreparable damage Nsima has done to the case, J. S. Okutepa absquatulated from the court the very day his presence was needed the most. Obviously, Okutepa is a man of high integrity and thus, wouldn’t want to compromise his pedigree with Nsima’s lies and failure. This action alone is more than a funeral mass for Nsima’s case. The departure of J. S. Okutepa from Nsima’s legal team has drastically compounded the APC’s woes in a way that Nsima has become a destitute. Ernest Ojukwu, SAN who is Nsima’s stand-in lead counsel, not knowing the biting questions to put forward to PDP witnesses resorted into flawing the tribunal’s standing orders. Before now, there was a standing order that counsels to different parties should not at any point, make use of any external materials to cross examine witnesses. Documents submitted by a witness was proposed to be used during his cross examination, but Ernest Ojukwu not having any clue about Tribunal proceedings flawed the standing order consecutively that the Chairman, Justice A. M. Yakubu became enervated of correcting him. Since the Chairman was not ready to call him to order again, Ernest Ojukwu deployed his only strategy, deceit to cover his shame of incapacitation. He brought documents that were neither presented by INEC nor the witnesses for cross examination of witnesses. ” While they were still combatting with their woes prior to the above scenarios, the worst disaster erupted their midst the moment the PDP National Legal Adviser, Barr. Emmanuel Enoidem appeared in the court as a star witness for Gov. Udom Emmanuel and PDP. With him were the results collated from all polling units of the state, accreditation register and voter’s register. After the star witness had impressively presented his documents one after the other for the Tribunal Chairman and his counsel, Counsel to the petitioner, Ernest Ojukwu, SAN was seen stammering as one whose courage has eluded. He didn’t know the right question to ask Barr. Enoidem order than asking, ” what is your name? Who are you? Are you sure you voted? Are you sure your party won? How many people were registered in your Ward? The inability of Ernest Ojukwu, SAN to ask reasonable questions and to also comport himself before the Tribunal created another dramatic scene as APC supporters began murmuring, ” why’s this man unable to ask questions? Why is he behaving as if he’s not qualified for this case?
Where is J. S. Okutepa? Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 