… Agrees there Was Election In Oruk Anam State Constituency. By Amadie Akpabio The 2nd witness for the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly Election petition tribunal sitting at Metro road, Uyo, Mr. Mboutidem Akpan Idut who was the ward and polling unit agent in ward 11 from Ikot oko village, Oruk Anam Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State in the march 9th, 2019 state assembly and governorship election has affirms the victory of Rt Hon Udo Kierian Akpan and PDP. Mr Idut who told the court that he was a pensioner, having retired from the Nigerian Police Force disclosed that there was proper accreditation and voting in his unit on election day. He also confirmed before the election petition tribunal that elections took place in Oruk Anam and pray the tribunal not to cancel the INEC already announced results in the local government. According to Mr Idut cancelling the results will be inappropriate. Here comes the questions and answers during cross examination: Q. Is it true you were a ward agent and not a polling unit agent.
Ans:
Yes My Lord. Q. Did you vote in the march 9th election in 2019. Ans. Yes My Lord, that’s correct Q. It is true there was accreditation in your polling unit? Ans. Yes My Lord Q. Is it true there was an election in your unit? Ans. Yes I voted, but there was no election. Q. As a Ward Agent your duty was to Monitor the election? Ans. That’s Correct. Q. Did you Carry out that responsibility? Ans. No My Lord. Q. In your unit accreditation started by 9am and voting commenced by 2pm.
Ans. No My Lord Q. Did your party record any vote In the 9th March Elections? And. No I’m not aware. Q. Confirm to the court that you did leave your ward as ward agent. Ans. Not true My Lord, I didn’t go outside my ward. Q. Where you accredited? Ans. Yes I was accredited and voted. Q. Do you want this tribunal to cancel the result of your unit? Ans. That would be inappropriate. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 