By Umani Uwemedimo I’ve seen several online campaigns by members of the All Progressives Congress in Akwa Ibom State, calling for the annulment of the March 9th gubernatorial election results as announced by INEC. They’ve equally stated their reasons why the governorship Tribunal sitting in Uyo should cancel the results presented before them by INEC. The primary reason is that the results presented by INEC are doctored results, maintaining that their party, APC won the election in 26 Local Government Areas of the State. Having a glance on their governorship Candidate’s petition, I discovered that the APC supporters are contradicting Nsima’s petition. They’re confusing themselves with their counterproductive suppositions. Nsima Ekere on his petition stated emphatically that election held in only two Local Government Areas ( Etim Ekpo and Essien Udim) therefore, the results presented for the remaining 29 Local Government Areas should be cancelled by the Court. This is the main premise of his case. In paragraph 23 of his petition, it’s clearly stated that election held across the 31 Local Government Areas, but was characterized by destruction of electoral materials, violence, kidnapping of voters, harassment and thuggery. Till today, we’re yet to see a case filed against any member of PDP, but there are series of cases filed against them by so many individuals and organizations prior to election malpractices and mayhem unleashed on our people during same election. In paragraph 24 of same petition, Nsima Ekere maintained that he had won the election in Ikot Abasi, Etim Ekpo, Essien Udim, Nsit Ubium, Abak, Esit Eket, OrueOffong Oruko, Itu, Ikot Ekpene, Obot Akara, Uyo and other eight Local Government Areas. How possible is it for Mr. Ekere to have won election in the same Local Government Areas he had claimed no election took place because of high rate of thuggery and abduction of Corp Members and Staffs of INEC? Again, Nsima Ekere in his petition had lampooned Men of the Nigerian Police Force for supervising election malpractices in favor of PDP, and also conniving with INEC and PDP to cart away electoral materials. But how would this allegation be possible when every police men in the State were receiving orders directly from AIG Musa Kimo and CP Kaoje? It’s on record that February and March general elections in Akwa Ibom State had exposed the above mentioned two Police Officers to be partisan. Nsima Ekere while giving his testimony in Court weeks ago maintained there was no election across the Local Government Areas of the State. These contradicting statements by Nsima and his supporters has literally put us in a dumfounding state. As a matter of fact, Nsima’s petition lacks coherency. At this juncture, one would be forced to ask if Nsima is purposely telling lies in Court inorder to help wipe away his shame, or he’s just confused? Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 