… Plans to Appoint 200 Special Advisers and Aides By Samuel Uko, Abak Chief Godswill Akpabio, the Former Governor of Akwa Ibom State and immediate past Senator Representing Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District our source gathers, has completed plans to commence subtle campaigns to install the next Governor of Akwa Ibom state in 2023. The former Governor who lost his Senatorial Seat to Senator Christopher Ekpenyong of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) at the February 23, 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections was recently nominated by His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari as a minister in the Federal Executive Council. Sources close to him reveal that Chief Akpabio hinted that he has perfected plans to commence campaigns for the 2023 elections in Akwa Ibom state. The source said he made this known at a meeting he held with his supporters at an undisclosed location yesterday, July 31, 2019. Another source who attended the meeting also revealed that Chief Akpabio has compiled names of Two Hundred and Fifty Akwa Ibom-ites whom he shall announce as Special Advisers and Aides upon his swearing-in as a minister and member of the Federal Executive. The names, the source said, is pulled from the three Senatorial Districts in the state. The source told our correspondents that the said list has at least seven names from each Local Government Area in the state. Giving further particulars, the source said that One Hundred of the Two Hundred and Fifty people will be considered as “Special Grade Aides” in the class of Senior Special Advisers while the remaining One Hundred and Fifty will be Ordinary Aides. Each Senatorial District in the state is expected to have an equal allocation of fifty slots for the Ordinary Aides. He said Chief Akpabio has promised to pay the sum of Four Hundred Thousand Naira to the Special Grade Aides and Three Hundred Thousand Naira to the Ordinary level Aides. Speaking further to our correspondent, the source confirmed that a very happy Akpabio who spoke ceaselessly at the event expressed his regrets in empowering most of the politicians who rebelled against him at the 2019 elections and promised to work with the new set of aides whom he referred to as his new recruits for the 2023 battle. Akpabio is said to have praised Bar. Ibanga Akpabio and Rt. Hon. Nse Ntuen and referenced them as the hallmark of loyalty and integrity. He thanked them for Standing by him in his days of seeming defeat. In the reverse, he referred to His Excellency, Udom Emmanuel, the Executive Governor of Akwa Ibom state as “…the greatest ingrate of the 21st Century” and Prince Ukpong Udo Akpabio as “…a child who has bitten the finger that fed him”. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 