A People Democratic Party (PDP) Polling agent from Unit 004 in Ward 4, Uruan local government area Wilfred Okon has debunked allegations by a certain APC witness Godwin Jarkwa, on the conduct of election in his unit. Unlike PW 20, Mr Jarkwa who had no Voter’s card to tender before the tribunal, Mr Okon also confirmed under cross examination that only those who produced their PVCs were allowed access to go in and vote by the electoral officers. At the resumed hearings on the Governorship election petition by Mr Nsima Ekere of the APC, Mr Okon shredded the allegations earlier brought by the said Jarkwa who came to testify for the petitioner as the twentieth witness. Okon also admitted while being led in evidence by Counsel to the PDP Tayo Oyetibo SAN, that he alongside the APC unit agent, signed the result form EC8A, marked as Exhibit RXA 2335 after the collation. The PDP agent said he was at the polling unit all throught the elections, which was held in a very free and fair atmosphere,  under the watch of security agents. “There was no fake material printed and distributed at the election venue and there was a fair presence of security agents who performed their duties.” “So the allegations by PW20 on violence were absolutely false?” He replied in the affirmative, and went further to echo that his party won with 226 votes compared to 62 scored by APC. The respondent’s witness under further cross examination by the Counsel to the Petitioner Prof. Ernest  Ojukwu,SAN identified his photograph on the INEC Register, but on further prompting on markings on the register responded that he was not the maker of the register and had no knowledge on how it is used. Confirm that is ur name and picture on column G/H. Confirm that there is no ticking there,” Ojukwu queried. The Witness replied, “I was accredited with smart card reader. There are tickings here” On further questions by Prof Ojukwu concerning the register, he replied. “I’m not the one who handled the accreditation so whatever is being noticed in the accreditation register is not within my knowledge,” he concluded. Another witness, Etim Esin Ukim of Edok village in Urueoffong Oruko, who served as polling unit agent for PDP also confirmed that elections in his unit was credible, culminating in his signing of form EC8A prepared and endorsed by the electoral officials.
He debunked an earlier testimony by one Roland Inwang who had claimed that elections was marred by violence and threats on APC supporters. “My lord, that is not true, everything was peaceful, no one brought thugs and in the end, PDP scored 319 while APC scored 79 votes. He said the APC agent was his brother and both of them signed the result sheet after due collation. During the cross examination by Ojukwu on why his brother was an APC agent,  Esin replied that he was not the one who asked the APC to enlist him as their agent. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 