…lauds Udom’s Industrial Drive By Aniekan James Ekah The Honorable Commissioner for Commerce and Investment, Akwa Ibom State, Prince Ukpong Akpabio, on Tuesday visited the Kings Flour Mill, Onna, to inspect the facility ahead of its scheduled test run and subsequent commissioning slated for September this year. Akpabio, who was elated with the level of work done at the project site said the Udom Emmanuel-led administration remains committed to the binding social contract of creating jobs for Akwa Ibom people through industrialization and creation of investment opportunities for the people as embedded in the governor’s Completion Agenda. Taking the Commissioner’s entourage around the facility, Project Manager of the facility, Mr. Alper Yilmaz, said Kings Flour Mill has a fixed production line to process flour and semolina and will on Thursday, 8th August 2019 commence a test-run to ascertain the level of readiness of the machines for adequate production. He added that Kings Flour Mill can produce 24,000 bags of wheat (500 metric tons) and 400 tons of flour daily. Speaking to newsmen briefly after the facility tour, the Commerce and Investment Boss said, Nigeria’s wheat production has been stagnant at 60,000 tonnes in the last three years and that with the commencement of production at Kings Flour Mill, the country is set to witness a boom in wheat production and this will surely have a positive impact not just on the nation’s economy but also on the state’s economy which is already waxing stronger due to the investment-friendly policies of the Governor Udom Emmanuel-led administration. Randomly interacting with workers who are majorly Akwa Ibomites drawn from Essien Udim, Onna, Eket, Uyo LGAs, the Commissioner, overwhelmed by their number and zeal to contribute their quota to the success story of the Industrialization drive of Governor Udom Emmanuel, encouraged them to remain focused and law-abiding in the discharge of their respective duties, maintaining that the management has assured the Government of taking more hands, promptly training and retraining of staff on Machines Installation and operations, likewise other available fields of endeavour, which will enable them become more productive and economically independent. Built on a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model, with hi-tech and fully automated machines, Kings Flour Mill has so far provided 100 direct jobs to both indigenes of the state and that of the neighboring states. It will also provide 500 direct jobs for the teeming youthful population of the state with an expansive value chain for the people. On the Commissioner’s entourage were Mr. Oliver Udokpo, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Trade and Investment, Mrs. Emem Umoh- Director of Admin, Michael Ibanga, Director of Industry, Okon Esuh – Director of Investment, Daniel Oduobuk, Director of Commerce, Barr. Akanimoh – Chief of Staff to the Commissioner, Mr. Cletus Udoh, Head, Information Unit, Abigail Imeh, Information Officer and some members of the Akwa Biz Connect Group. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 