Following the ICPC’s confirmation of the diversion of hospital equipments by Sen. Godswill Akpabio and 6 tractors by Senator Isa Misau, a renown Nigerian non-profit organization promoting socio-economic rights, transparency and accountability in Nigeria, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP), about 3 days ago declared that the ICPC Chairman, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye should do the proper thing which is to “jointly and urgently invite senators Godswill Akpabio and Isa Misau for interrogation and further questioning over alleged diversion of constituency projects”. SERAP is calling on the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission to also prosecute Senator Godswill Akpabio for the alleged diversion of the hospital equipment awarded under constituency projects. I don’t think there’s anything wrong with that. Considering the timing of the petition by SERAP, SERAP accordingly is no doubt implying that Sen. Godswill Akpabio as believed in virtually all civilised quarters is not qualified to serve as a minister under a government supposedly fighting corruption. Probably that’s the fear of the Akpabios as expressed by DE-BONGOS MEDIA PROJECTS. I expected the DE-BONGOS MEDIA PROJECTS to declare their readiness to defend St. Akpabio in court but the mercenary whose owner some years back was the leading petitioner on allege Akpabio’s loot until some processes were processed rather resorted to launching a subtle attack on another APC chieftain, Senator Ita Enang. Hear the Akpabios: “We are aware that a certain public servant currently serving in President Buhari’s government, having failed in his lobbying for ministerial appointment is disgruntled and has resorted to inundating media houses and venal civil society groups with spurious claims of graft against Senator Godswill Akpabio, a minister-designate from Akwa Ibom State.” The DE-BONGOS MEDIA PROJECTS further went on to tell us what their Akpabio did for Ita Enang. According to them Akpabio donated “components comprising 150 (One hundred and fifty) mattresses and pillows to the Cottage hospital in Ibiono Ibom local goverment area where Senator Ita Enang hails from.” From the excerpt above, it is not only clear that the Akpabios are not only out to identify Sen. Ita Enang whom we had already know is the only Akwa Ibom person working in the presidency as Akpabio’s villain but also to present him as an ingrate who went ahead to fight Akpabio despite the fact that Akpabio has done to Ibiono hospital what Ita Enang did not or cannot do by donating the mentioned equipment to Ibiono hospitals. It is clear this is a new phase of political war in the APC. It is the beginning of more wars. Our Akpabio can never be comfortable with other Akwa Ibom persons at the presidency. Before 2023, let’s not bet, it will be either many Akwa Ibom persons in Abuja without Akpabio or Akpabio alone without any other person of significance in Abuja, but that is if Buhari remains the President till 2023. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 