By Koko Udonquak As part of activities to mark the fourth anniversary of Family Empowerment and Youth Reorientation Path-initiative, (FEYReP), the wife of Akwa Ibom state Governor Mrs. Martha Udom Emmanuel, Tuesday, empowered over 500 Physically Challenged Persons in the state with financial grants for businesses. Themed: “Right to Rise”, the event which took place at Ibom Hall, Uyo, served as a clarion call for the Physically Challenged persons to take advantage of the opportunity within their reach to rise to greatness. Packages such as braille papers and wheel chairs were also given to them. Addressing the excited crowd of beneficiaries, Mrs. Emmanuel expressed her appreciation to God for keeping “these special people” alive, saying they occupy a special place in her heart. She said there was ability in every disability and asserted that ‘Special People’ had inherent talents embedded in them. The governor’s wife charged them to harness these talents and gifts, rather than look down on themselves and engage in self-pity. “FEYReP will be four years in a couple of days and I thought it will be wise to begin the celebration with you people because you’re all special people. Whatever you’re given today, you must make ample use of it and not engage in begging.” Mrs. Emmanuel remarked. She further admonished the beneficiaries to be positive minded and use the empowerment packages received to better their families and the society. While thanking the leadership of the group for their steadfastness with the government, Mrs. Emmanuel promised that her pet-project will continue to support and empower the Physically Challenged Persons in the state at regular intervals. Earlier in her tone setting, the coordinator of FEYReP, Mrs. Ime Inyang, commended Mrs. Emmanuel for her kind gestures towards the physically challenged community in the state, stating that she has given renewed hope to these special people. Inyang called on the beneficiaries to reciprocate the patriotic gesture by using the packages received to better their lots. In their separate goodwill messages, the wife of Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Mrs. Itohowo Bassey, the Hon. Commissioner for Agriculture and Women Affairs, Dr. Glory Edet and wife of the Head of Service, Mrs. Uduak Essien, all extolled the Godly virtues of the governor and wife, saying Akwa Ibom leads the way in the celebration and empowerment of the Physically Challenged persons in the country. They thanked the governor’s wife particularly for her unfailing love for the downtrodden, and prayed that God will reward her labour of love. Responding on behalf of her colleagues, the interim President of Joint Association of People Living With disabilities, Mrs. Affiong Bassey described Mrs. Emmanuel as God-sent to people of the state and prayed God’s blessings to replenish all she has done through her pet project. While acknowledging that Akwa Ibom State stands tall in inclusion of the Physically Challenged in governance, Mrs. Bassey expressed the group’s appreciation to Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel for his giant strides pledging that they will surmount all disabilities and soar to greater heights.  View Photos      Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 