By Osondu Ahirika It is no longer news that, a seven-count charge has been filed against the Publisher of the popular online Sahara Reporters and Presidential Candidate of the African Action Alliance (AAA) in the February 23, 2019 election in Nigeria, Mr Omoyele Sowore, by the Federal Government. Detained since August 3, by the Department of State Security Services, DSS, Mr Sowore, leader of the RevolutionNow protest, is being accused by the Nigerian government of treasonable felony and money laundering. The seven-count charge was filed against Sowore, along with Mr Olawale Bakare, also known as Mandate on Friday. The charges were signed on behalf of t‎he Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN), by Mr Aminu Alilu, a chief state counsel in the Department of Public Prosecutions of the Federation‎ in the Federal Ministry of Justice. I will however not bore you with the legal jargons contained in the case file. Many pundits have argued that, President Buhari has got it all wrong by going after Sowore with an Iron fist. Those who propagate this notion, would rather, Sowore’s antics is ignored, and he will fade into oblivion and inconsequence. They think, he needed attention to hug the headlines and the clamp down has served him that, on a platter. How mistaken and pedestrain such view is. Fortunately, Buharists know better. Reason, the Adminstration is not smiling with Sowore.
Of a truth, President Buhari has cause to be so worried about Sowore’s script. Let me share why. Ever heard of Ernesto “Che” Guevara? He was the hot headed Argentine Marxist revolutionary. A physician, author, guerrilla leader, diplomat, and military theorist, Guevara became a major figure of the Cuban Revolution. His stylized visage, perpetually adorened with his trademark beret, has become a ubiquitous countercultural symbol of rebellion and global insignia for Communist or Marxist activists. Born 14 June 1928 in Rosario, Argentina,
Guevara worked with Fidel Castro to stir and berth the Cuban revolution which ousted the Batista regime and traveled the world in an effort to cause revolutions. In death, he became immortal. A legendary figure who became a symbol of radical revolution for those who are underrepresented all over the world. What Guevara learnt from idolizing Vladimir Lenin of the Soviet Union revolution, he perfected and personified. He died on 9 October 1967 in La Higuera, Bolivia, but lives on in a long line of rebels and freedom Fighters, who continue to steam in his fire and shake their nation’s. The repetoire of revolutions in South American countries was his craft and the likes of late Venezuelan President, Hugo Chavez, late Cuban leader, Fidel Castro, Daniel Ortega of Nicaragua, Manuel Noriega of Panama, Augusto Pinochet of Chile among others, were triggered by Guevara’s influence. In Africa, we have seen a few Guevara-like self styled revolutionaries who turned their nation’s inside out and, many times, upside down. They span through the civilian and military wings.
Remember Charles Taylor and Prince Yormie Johnson of Liberia? President Samuel Doe ignored them as rabble rousers initially, and woke up too late to his peril. In the Military wing, we had the likes of Coporal Foday Sankoh and Captain Valentine Strasser of Sierra Leone, Col. John Garang of Sudan, Captain Thomas Sankara of Burkina Faso and indeed, Flight Lieutenant Jerry Rawlings of Ghana. The neccessity of brevity wouldn’t permit a chronicle of these revolutionaries. One thing they had in common was their Guevara identification and kindred spirit.
Currently in South Africa, Julius Malema, leader of the left wing Party known as Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), is by every stretch, the reincarnate embodiment of the Guevara ideological leaning. He remains a time bomb in South Africa’s political arena waiting to unravel and happen someday. Look closely at Julius Malema and the long list here listed and you will see how Sowore’s brand fits the trajectory. To make matters more than conspicous, he ‘denominated’ himself and his horde, by brandishing the Guevara style Beret. Who says President Buhari should not be so worried about Sowore’s seething rage? Especially, when he code-named it, RevolutionNow. Sowore, soon after the Presidential election, launched a campaign calling for a revolution in Nigeria on the following grounds. Flawed electoral process, endemic corruption, ineptitude and incompetence of President Buhari. “We don’t want war,” Sowore said in a July video. “We want a very clean, quick, succinct revolutionary process – surgical. That we put an end to the shenanigans of government, that we put an end to oppression, the corruption of government.” That was for Buhari and his minders, a war cry that shouldn’t be ignored. That’s a subtle hint of regime change. It is a nudge to abort the Buhari administration by any means necessary. Sowore’s planned nationwide series of protests, if allowed to go ahead, could become a genie out of the bottle. It may well snowball into something uncontrollable, and in extreme case, topple government. The recent Arab spring which decimated many ruthlessly entrenched regimes in North Africa remains fresh in view. So, the State Security Service said the calls for revolution were unlawful. Sowore, the DSS said, “..has crossed the line, he has threatened public safety” The DSS vowed that, “… Nothing will happen, there won’t be any revolution. The government, which has been elected democratically, will be in place.” The short statement, in itself, was rimmed with the weight of worry, Sowore’s brand ignited in Government circles. I don’t care about calls that, Sowore is reaping the whirlwind after sowing the wind by allegedly, lending his structures to villify, harass and remove former President Goodluck Jonathan to replace him with Buhari. I just intend to aver, Buhari is so worried about the radical script of Sowore, which, uncensored, may infect the populace, and stoke them to mass denouncement of his tenure. Buhari is rightly so worried, the people’s unstable emotions, may yield and be surbordinated to Sowore’s impudent register and lure them to mass revolt.
With Sowore in the gulag, his looming veneration by the equally estranged masses has been postponed, or even averted. Nnamdi Kanu of the proscribed Independent People of Biafra, IPOB, was a manifesto of secession which gave cause for irritation. But, that is a crude form of revolution that can be easily tracked. You see the Sowore kind, the Power’s that be, need be so worried because it is harder to crack. Can they stop him? Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 