…Constituents Celebrates Court Ruling, Gives thanks to God. By Abasiama EtukAkpan The elections Petition Tribunal Sitting in Uyo Akwa Ibom State has dismissed the petition filled by the Candiate of the All Progressives Congress(APC),Mr Victor Nkanang challenging the victory of the March 9 House of Assembly elections in Abak State Constituency which declared Elder (Comrade) Udeme Otong of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) as the authentic winner of the polls. Mr. Nkanang who was the Petitioner in the petition claimed that the election that produced the incumbent Member Representing Abak State Constituency,Hon.Otong( The Respondent) was marred with corruption and irregularities. The Tribunal Committee however dismissed the petition for lack of merit and declared Elder Udeme Otong as the authentic winner of the polls with the highest number of votes cast in the Abak State Constituency March 9 polls. Reacting to the judgement, the lawmaker representing Abak State Constituency and Chairman House Committee on Health, Elder Udeme Otong returned Glory to God. In his words, “I thank God for the victory he has given the people of Abak State Constituency today. Our people voted for our party and the People’s Democratic Party shall continue to be victorious because they have the love for us. The judgment is a reflection of the wish and will of our people”.He however assured to continue representing his people effectively in the Hallowed Chamber of the State Assembly. The elated constituents of Abak who joined the lawmaker for the tribunal victory celebration in his ABAK ITENGE residence commended the tribunal for the excellent judgement and thanked God for the deserving victory. The event was well attended by bigwigs of the People’s Democratic Party in Abak Local Government Area led by the Chapter Chairman, the Director General of the Grace Mandate Campaign Organisation, Pastor Ekerete Inyang and the campaign team ,supporters of the lawmaker among many other guests.  Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 