By Abasiama EtukAkpan Comrade Udeme Otong, the incumbent Member Representing Abak State Constituency in Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly.A two term Chairman of the National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives(NANNM),Chairman Joint Heath Sector Union in Akwa Ibom State has occupied a plethora of offices with outstanding history and records in those positions occupied. -He was National President,Initiatives of Health Workers in Community Medicine, Nigeria, he brought in his best to ensure health workers witness exemplary leadership. -He was also President and Trustee of Health Workers Multi Purpose Cooperative Society, Akwa Ibom State chapter, a position he brought in his best for the better welfare of health workers in Akwa Ibom State. -He was also the Immediate Past State Chairman,National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives, Akwa Ibom State Council, a position he used to transform the face of NANNM in the State. He brought in transformational leadership to the union and his tenure was described by many as the best in the history of the Union. He ensured the welfare of nurses were given utmost attention and care. -He is the Immediate Past Chairman, Joint Public Sector Negotiating Council (JPSNC) in Akwa Ibom State where he took the welfare of the workers in the state as his own and gave his best to negotiate for the betterment of the workers in the state. -He is the Immediate Past Chairman of Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) in Akwa Ibom State where he delivered excellently for the health workers in the state. -He is the Chairman of EDIMED Health Care Foundation Nigeria where he managed the day to day running of the foundation from the scratch to a growing and standard foundation with over 500 staff strength. -He is the Chairman, EDIMED Hospital and Pharmacy where he groomed the company to the desired standard offering sustained health needs to the people of Akwa Ibom State and it’s environs. -He is the Honourable Member Representing the good and wonderful people of Abak State Constituency in Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, a position he has used to offer his people effective and transparent representation within few months in the hallowed chamber with a promise to redefine representation in the constituency. -He is the Chairman House Committee on Health in the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, a position that is well deserved and he has used to assist the Government of Akwa Ibom State to offer improved health care needs to the people of the State. He is a Leader with Outstanding Qualities and Impeccable Attributes. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 