By Esther Okono Sen. Godswill Akpabio is a very vindictive man who pretends to be nice 1. Sen. Godswill Akpabio was among those who scheme and removed Sen. Chris Ekpenyong as the Deputy Governor of Akwa Ibom State with the mindset that then Gov. Victor Attah would handpick him as Ekpenyong’s replacement but later, he was disappointed and not even the birds in government House talked about him. He conspired with his likes and Ukarakpa was successfully removed from office. Upon his wicked treatments he unleashed on Ukarakpa, when he aspired to be governor, Ukarakpa stood by him and made sure he succeeded even against all odds. He never for one day tried to repay him with his evil deeds. 2. During the build-up to the 2015 election, Akpabio personally approached Ukarakpa and asked him to contest to succeed Sen. Aloysius Etuk as the Senator Representing Ikot Ekpene Senatorial. Ukarakpa with the believe that he was dealing with a sane human being, purchased the party’s nomination form and was preparing for the primaries, unknown to him that Sen. Godswill Akpabio has also picked the same form too. Few days to the primaries, Akpabio approached Ukarakpa and told him point blank to step down for him which he quietly did and supported Akpabio happily. 3. In 2019, Akpabio contested against Ukarakpa for the Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District seat. On hearing that PDP has presented Chris Ekpenyong to contest against him, he mocked him and said that “hundred of Ukarakpa can never defeat him in an election”. He relocated to Abuja to do Eye service for buhari. He was even seen struggling with Buhari’s ADC on who will hold Buhari’s broom. On the day of the election, the people of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District dumped him and elected Sen. Chris Ekpenyong as their Senator. In the ten local government areas that make up Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District, Akpabio managed to win just two. 4. Till date, Sen. Godswill Akpabio has refused to Congratulate Sen. Chris Ekpenyong who defeated him home and away flawlessly. Chris Ekpenyong made Akpabio look ordinary during the election. Yesterday, the elections petition tribunal affirmed the election of Sen. Chris Ekpenyong but as we speak, Bro Goddy has refused to Congratulate him after his efforts to bribe the tribunal judges failed. 5. Sometime last month, we woke to the news that Sen. Chris Ekpenyong has lost his Dear Wife. The entire Akwa Ibom State sympathized with him except one man, Sen. Godswill Akpabio. As we speak, Akpabio is yet to publicly or privately sympathize with his successor and the man representing him at the Senate Chambers. Instead, his supporters came online to claim that Akpabio said he will never sympathize with him because Ukarakpa killed his wife for fame and that more bad things will keep happening to him. WHAT A MAN! INDEED, INGRATITUDE IS A SIN! Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 