…Demands refund of N300m From Justice Tahir By Imaobong Udo Following his inability to secure favourable judgement from the Akwa  Ibom National Assembly Election Petitions Tribunal, Senator Godswill Akpabio has allegedly launched media attacks on members of the Tribunal. Akpabio has also vowed to stop at nothing to retrieve the N300m obtained by Justice Sheriff Hafiz Tahir who had promised to convince other members of the tribunal to sway judgement in his favour. It was gathered that Akpabio sensing defeat, had allegedly secured the services of one of the panelists Justice Tahir to get the three man panel to secure him the Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District seat, which he had lost to Chris Ekpenyong on February 23. Justice Hafiz subsequently delivered a minority judgement in Akpabio’s favour at the tribunal on Wednesday, while Justice Akanbi and Justice Douglas both unanimously dismissed the petition as lacking in merit. It is generally believed that the absence of Justice Hafiz on Thursday night during the delivery of judgement in the case between Nsikak Ekong of the PDP and Emmanuel Akpan of the APC, may have been as a result of his inability to influence the Chairman and the other member of the tribunal to accept Akpabio’s bribe, forcing the latter to ask for an immediate return of the ‘appreciation token.’ Justice Hafiz Tahir’s bribery saga came to fore on Thursday, when on sighting some loyalists of Senator Akpabio, led by Hon. Nse Ntuen at the court premises, he took to his heels and left the court arena leaving the other two judges to preside over the last lap of the case involving Ikot Ekpene Federal Constituency, which also went in favour of PDP. Having failed to secure judgement in his favour, the former National Assembly Member for Ikot-Ekpene Senatorial District, and current Minister of Niger-Delta has reportedly instructed his media team to launch attack on the Chairman and Members of the tribunal. He is reported to have boasted that he has the Appeal Court President in his pocket and has vowed that judgement will be procured at whatever cost, especially with his much taunted Abuja connection. The latest blackmail campaign launched on the Tribunal Members by his media boys, according to a source in Akpabio’s camp is one of the strategy already mapped out to deceive the public. Meanwhile, observers within and outside the Senatorial district have called on Senator Akpabio to call his media attack dogs to order. Several social media and offline reactions to the attack on the tribunal members have condemned the style adopted by the defeated Senator whose petition was dismissed for lacking in merit. They have advised him to accept defeat, congratulate the winner and move on to concentrate on his new assignment at the Niger-Delta Ministry. But undaunted, Akpabio has reportedly instructed his media hirelings to give Akanbi the ‘Igini’ treatment for failing to do their bid. It would be recalled that Akpabio had before the elections launched a media campaign for the removal of Mike Igini, when the former student activist refused his offer to cooperate with APC and rig the election in their favour. The sitting of the tribunal in Uyo was also resisted by Akpabio and his media urchins who campaigned vigorously in futility and for the relocation of the tribunals to Abuja. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 