Press Release Early today,Monday, September 16, 2019,we watched the orchestrated visit of the former Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission, NDDC, Obong Nsima Ekere,accompanied by Senator Kabiru Gaya to the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs,Senator Godswill Akpabio. Though we were not surprised to see the unholy romance which in all intent and purpose was to create an impression of novelty and comradeship which to any sane Akwa Ibom man should be seen as a window dressing which deserves no applause and/or kudos from meticulous and major political players in the State. Let us ask Senator Akpabio this simple question, why is it that only  few days ago that we watched on National television how you accused/indicted Obong Nsima Ekere of financial impropriety and reckless spending during his tenure as Managing Director of NDDC,an affiliate parastatal of your Ministry and today,the same accused was seen visiting you as a saint? We know who Senator Akpabio is. We know his kind of politics. His hate for Ibibio ethnic nationality is glaringly conspicuous. If anyone frowns at our position, then let us ask another question here,why is that Obong Nsima Ekere as a son of Ibibio nation who by his personal/political affiliation with Senator Akpabio deserves more prestige in being addressed but wasn’t offered this deserving right of being quizzed privately by Senator Akpabio who was the biggest beneficiary of his many largesse during his tenure as Managing Director of NDDC if Akpabio’s intent wasn’t to demonize the former and place that burden of guilt on his neck,probably, paint him black before the Federal Government and drive him to the background as he did to other Ibibio sons and daughters during his tenure as the Executive Governor of Akwa Ibom State? The unholy show we saw this morning was nothing but a mere political gambit to create a friendly gesture which to any sane man can’t be seen as anything serious. Obong Nsima Ekere may have paid the courtesy visit on Senator Akpabio on a very genuine premise,but that can’t be said of Senator Akpabio who according to an impeccable source has sworn to demonize Obong Ekere and other Ibibio men and make them to realize that  he has the power today and  will decide what to do with it. Yes,we are told that the man,Senator Kabiru Gaya who accompanied Obong Nsima Ekere to Senator Godswill Akpabio’s office brokered the deal. With the kind of person that Akpabio is,let us ask again, can a leopard change its colour?? Can Senator Gaya do much to uproot the malice Akpabio holds at heart against the Ibibios? Akpabio doesn’t know how to forgive, he doesn’t believe in loyalty,he doesn’t know how to support a particular course to the end;all what he knows is,pursuing courses that seem to fatten his pocket,and in propagating this,he can’t give a damn if his closest ally(ies) is/are slaughtered. Few years ago,Akpabio vilified our leaders and imported all manners of derogatory remarks on our party leadership, today,Akpabio is being presented as a saint because few dollars have changed hands. This however makes us to lose faith in the All Progressives Congress. In this case,we have decided to see the course of Ibibio nation which we represent as the greatest task today. We are ready to fight our common enemy. Obong Nsima Ekere is our own and we are not ready to disown or sell him out because Ibibio parlance holds that no matter how dirty the teeth may be,it forms an important part of someone’s mouth. In this case,we want to tell Obong Nsima Ekere that we are not ready to leave him nor sell him as a sacrificial lamb to Akpabio as experienced in his days as his Deputy. We therefore ask Obong Nsima Ekere to be wary of Senator Akpabio’s antics. Let Ekere and all other Ibibio sons and daughters know that Akpabio CAN NEVER wish Ibibio well. Though we are ready to resist any attempt by Akpabio or proxy to cow or intimate the Ibibios,let our people be circumspect in their acts within and outside any political party in AKS and in particular, Akpabio’s APC. Conclusively, we call on all Ibibio sons and daughters to unite and work as a common entity in a bid to stopping the advancement of Akpabio ignoble course(s) in Ibibio land. Let us rally around one of our own,Governor Udom Emmanuel who is a true son of Ibibio nation and whose reign as the Executive Governor of Akwa Ibom State Akpabio has planned to destabilize and/or truncate. Akpabio can’t be bigger than Ibibio nation. His strength can’t suppress ours.He has a Niger Delta Ministry to perform his enterprise, but not Ibibio nation. We say NO to Akpabio’s political gambit. A word is enough for the wise. Jointly signed by:
1.Leo Etim Udoh
2.Joseph Clement A.
3.Albert Akpan Efiom
4.Etim Edet Esau
5.Okon Sunday William
6.Anietie Effiong Idem
7. Matthias udo Ibom
8.Martin Solomon Ekanem
9.Imoh Etim Ben
10.Dennis J. Akpan
11.Titus Joshua Ewondo
12. Jeremiah Essien Nkanga
13. Attah Louis Idio
14.Barr. Okon Edem
15. Sylvanus Timothy Tom
16. FearGod Nathan Eyo
17.James James Ekpo
18. Thaddeus Eseme Essien
19.Akpan Nyong Ibom
20.Imoh Joshua okpon
21. Tony Tenison
22. Eyo Ukeme Mbuk
23.Thelma Edison Udoh For IBOM RENEWAL INITIATIVE
AKWA IBOM STATE
PHONE:08060202088,08162988619,08087666901
Email:info@iri.com;iri.ng@gmail.com Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 