By Emma Akpabio As Part of Activities to commemorate the 32nd birth anniversary of Akwa Ibom State creation, the State Environmental Protection and Waste Management Agency (AKSEPWMA) in partnership with Ministry of Environment, African Ecological Restoration foundation on September 30, 2019, inaugurated trees planting Exercise tagged “Ibom Greener Project”. The exercise which took place at AKSEPWMA office complex was initiated by Georgie Farms and biological garden, a non governmental organization, and proudly sponsored by the family Empowerment Youth Reorientation path initiative (FEYReP), a pet project of the Akwa Ibom State First Lady, Mrs. Martha Udom Emmanuel. In his speech, the AKSEPWMA Chairman, Hon. Prince Ikim who tanked God for the opportunity to serve, also appreciated the Akwa Ibom State Governor – Mr. Udom Emmanuel for his invaluable contributions in changing  the status of the State to its Present globally recognized position. Speaking further, Ikim who highlighted the major problems of today’s environment to include depreciation of economic trees due to over exploitation, spoke on the importance of tree in our environments. “Trees naturally remove carbon-di- oxide from the atmosphere during the process of photosynthesis and in turn release the pertinent gas, Oxygen as by-Products. Trees directly reduce the impacts of the green house effects.” Ikim added that trees provide fruits, vegetables, fodder for animals as well as serving great medicinal, educational, aesthetics, economic and social value. Commending the wife of the State  Governor whom he described as the most environment friendly First Lady in Nigeria, Ikim thanked Mrs Emmanuel for her contributions in sustaining a healthy environment by donating economic trees to our communities. On her part, the Progenitor of the program who doubles as CEO of Georgie farms and biological garden, Mrs Emem Umoh while speaking, noted that “tree planting has been embraced globally as the only natural means of reducing climate change impacts for a healthier environment.” According to Mrs Umoh, what this calls for is extra commitment and dedication to environmental friendly actions by individuals, families communities, corporate organizations, institutions, government agencies and all residents of the State”. Expected results from the Ibom greener Project as highlighted by the organisers include; increase level of awareness of biodiversity conservation and related issues, updated conservation status of flagship species in both forest reserves and free areas, preparedness for establishment of Akwa Ibom national Park and lots more. The high points of the event were planting of trees, donation of over 1000 economic tree seedlings to members of the public and presentation of “Ibom green plaque” to the State Governor through Ikim, by Mrs Caroline Olory who is the Conservator of Parks, Cross Rivers State National Park. Goodwill messages were also presented by Dr. Edwin Egwali-renowned environmentalist, Clan head of Itam- Etebom Dr. Donald Uboh, representative of Biodiversity reservation Centre amongst others. See photos Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 