By Etieno Ibanga The Chairman , National Association of Primary School Head Teachers of Nigeria, Ukanafun Branch, Elder Solomon Etokeren has described the free distribution of 50 thousand Note and textbooks to schools in Ukanafun and OrukAnam local Government Areas by the Member for Ukanafun/OrukAnam Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Unyime Idem as a welcome development and relief to parents. Elder Etokeren who spoke at the flagged off of the Distribution of the educational materials at QIC central School Ikot Akpa Nkuk, Ukanafun said the programme was apt ,coming at the time, schools re- open for 2019/2020 academic session . He said through the gesture, Hon. Idem has taken off the burden of procuring study materials to pupils by parents. Elder Etokeren, who is also the Head Teacher of QIC Central School, Ikot Akpa Nkuk commended the National Assembly man for his love and Interest in the education of his people , saying that, base on his private sector background, Hon. Idem must have seen the need to empower the pupils inorder to guarantee them a better future. He noted that the distribution was also important coming at the time the state government is embarking on serious restructuring of the education system , and also a boost to the free and compulsory Education of the state. According to the Head Teacher, Hon. Unyime Idem is not a disappointment as the people of the Federal Constituency did not make any mistake in electing him to Represent them at the National Assembly ,adding that ,the Constituents have started to ripe the benefits of effective Representation. The Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Education, Prof. Nse Essien applauded the Federal Lawmaker for having the interest of his people at heart and for keying into the free education policy of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s Administration. Represented at the event by the Director of Education Services in the ministry, Barrister Asuquo Edem , the commissioner advised the pupils to make good use of the educational materials to enable them to stand out in their Academic pursuit. He called on others to emulate the example of the Federal Lawmaker by supporting the growth of Education in the society. The Member for Ukanafun/OrukAnam Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon.Unyime Idem said the gesture was borne out of his love and passion for the Education of his Constituents describing education as the responsibility of all. Hon. Idem who spoke through his Aide , Mr Clayton Eyenaka said all public primary Schools in the federal Constituency would benefit from the Free notes and textbooks and advised pulpils to study hard, obey their parents so that their future would be meaningful. Hon. Idem described investment in the early stage of Education as laying a solid foundation for tommorow , urging pupils not to joke with the opportunity they have for studies adding that with dedication, determination and commitment, they would attain their academic height. At the event , the Deputy Chairman , House Committee on Communications doled out customized exercise books as well as textbooks to pupils from primary one to six in Ukanafun OrukAnam Local Government Areas. The benevolence of the Federal Lawmaker attracted commendation from stakeholders in the education sector in the federal Constituency. Those who spoke glowingly at the exercise including the Supervisor for Education in Ukanafun, Mr Ofonime Inwang, Education Secretary in Ukanafun, Elder J. Udoumana, Head Teacher of Government School Ikot Ibritam, OrukAnam, Mrs Ekaette Sunday Offiom, and Zonal Director, Mr Louis Akpan among others. They said that Hon. Idem has set the pace in the federal Constituency and called on others to join hands with him to raise the standard of education in the society. The speakers averred that Hon. Idem has proven himself as a leader who is capable of changing the narratives of Representation in the federal Constituency as evidenced so far in his credible performance on the floor of the green chamber . While thanking him for investing in the future of children, the respondents prayed God to strengthen the member of Parliament do more . The Joy on the faces of pupils knew no bound as they expressed appreciation to the Federal Lawmaker through songs , asking God to reward and bless Hon. Idem whom they described as Lover of Education. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 