By Esther Okono The truth is that Sen. Godswill Akpabio cannot exist without bribing people, that is what he does for a living. He eats, drinks and breath bribe. Take a look at this.. 1. During the just concluded elections tribunal, he tried bribing the three man panel that delivered judgement on his Senatorial ambition but failed. He was only able to bribe one of the three judges. Akpabio approached the judges and offered each of them N300Million but two of the judges rejected the offer except Justice Sheriff who collected the money and ruled in his favour. On seeing that he could not get the two judges to his side, Akpabio mandated Barr. Leo Ekpenyong to release a statement claiming the judges have been compromised by the state government while also issuing another statement disowning the claims of Leo Ekpenyong. The man Akpabio is always intelligent by half. The two claims was from him but using two different sources. 2. During Obong Victor Attah’s tenure as the governor of Akwa Ibom State, Sen. Godswill Akpabio was the serving Commissioner caught in a hotel at Ewet Housing bribing tribunal judges in favor of his boss, the then governor. The Late Dr. Ime Umanah had approached the tribunal to declare him the rightful winner of that election but Akpabio was on hand to destroy his efforts by turning the judges against him. He personally delivered millions of dollars and Nairas to the judges to twist the judgement against Dr. Umanah. 3. During his second term as the governor of Akwa Ibom State, Sen. Godswill Akpabio had to also bribe his way to victory. After approaching the likes of Tinubu, Bisi Akande and other Action Congress bigwigs to beg Sen. John Udoedeghe to withdraw his case against him but was turned down, he decided to bribe the judges with Billions of Naira to rule in his favour. Each judge was given Two Hundred Million Naira as at then. 4. On realizing that the name of Sen. Ita Enang was penciled down for a ministerial appointment, he decided to do what he knows how to do best, bribe. He reportedly gave the cabal led by Abba Kyari a whopping N1bn just to be appointed a minister at the detriment of his own brother from Akwa Ibom State. So, Sen. Godswill Akpabio is an addicted bribe giver. He even coined a phrase that “what money cannot do, more money can do”. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 