By Umani Uwemedimo The 2018/2019 UEFA Europa League season I believe was and would be the most intrinsic season in  the history of the league. Chelsea was relegated from the UEFA Champions League to the UEFA second division league because of poor performance in the former. Coming to the lower league to meet with teams like Eintracht Frankfurt of Germany, AS Roma and SSC Napoli of Italy, Zenit St. Petersburg of Russia,  RB Salzburg of Austria, FC Sevilla of Spain, Inter Milan fc of Italy, the almighty Arsenal FC of England among other football clubs who were in great and consistent form, and had understood the League better than the new comer, was indeed a terrible circumstance for Chelsea. To say it all, Chelsea was underrated and no one believed the team could excel. The above illustration depict the hypothesizations of the naysayers before and during the February 22 2019 National Assembly elections. Their postulation was anchored on the PDP’s choice of nominating Chris Ekpenyong as the Party’s Candidate for Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District when there were more politically active party faithfuls for ready for the position. They believed Ukarakpa would be the easiest to be flogged by Senator Akpabio. Never did it occur to them that the pendulum had swung to another direction and thus, power had changed hand. Ukarakpa will forever remain Ukarakpa irrespective of age and years out of political equation After lots of struggles, injuries suspensions and all those stuffs, Chelsea was fixed to play Arsenal in the final of the UEFA Europa League. I am a Chelsea fan but I must confess, I didn’t watch the match because I was scared of seeing my team being defeated by Emery’s little boys. Same way some of my party faithfuls were scared  that APC was going to win the  Senatorial District because the underated Ukarakpa as the Party’s Candidate. You know Arsenal fans are good at telling history just like the Akwa Ibom APC supporters and their brouhaha. They were able to convince me that from time immemorial, they’ve never been defeated by Chelsea in any finals. Same way the APC members in the State had believed that my uncle, Senator Akpabio has never been defeated and will never be defeated in any election irrespective of political party. Even Akpabio himself had claimed he can win election under any Political party. Hmmm. This one was what I didn’t believe: it was like a case of David and Goliath. Everything that has a beginning must as well have an end. When Arsenal was defeated by four goals to one, Arsenal fans were as those that dreamt. Same astonishment had beguiled APC supporters when they heard that their Iroko tree had fallen. Did they cry? No! the lost had ensconced them in a dumfounding state: they didn’t know if to laugh or screech. For the victim, Senator Akpabio, it was a moment of great sobering. He had wished he could travel to the past to undo all his misdemeanors, all his gasconades and also tantrums against God, gods of the land and the elders. It was a moment where his prayers for peace and forgiveness before the elders had became sins. People were left with no other option than to assume he’s ‘ ICHABOD’. Akpabio on the verge to cover up his shames since other doors to see him victorious in the election were shut, had journeyed to the National Assembly election Tribunal in his acclaimed bid to recover his ‘stolen’ mandate. On arriving the Election Tribunal, Akpabio’s case suffered a setback that catapulted it to the sphere of lifelessness. The incoherence nature of the case had struck his legal counsel to a discompose state. Inorder not to be disgraced at the court, they presented no APC unit agent as a witness. Majority of the witnesses presented before the Court were intruders and impersonators who had nothing to do with APC or the elections, while the remaining witnesses were people decorated and manipulated by his village people to end Akpabio’s political career. This last group of witnesses came to the Court, divulging to the Court that they were in their houses, getting the election results from calls, internet and messages and other abracadabra. To them, they didn’t even know the persons who transmitted the results to them. No! Akpabio’s village people were at serious work. Like I said in the, ” everything that has a beginning must also have an end”, Wednesday has been set aside by the Tribunal Panel to give its verdict prior to the series of sessions, arguments and also the facts they’ve gathered so far. From all indications, Senator Akpabio was not ready for this case same way he was unprepared for the election, and there’s no magic the Tribunal Panel would perform to help him out. It’s glaring that he had no case at the Tribunal so he’ll lose out again in this final match tomorrow. President Buhari has compensated him already with a Ministerial appointment and should be contented with a bird at hand that the thousands of birds on the tree. Concurrently, I also believe Akpabio wouldn’t want to ridicule himself by Appealing his case after tomorrow’s verdict. He  should allow this to be his last blow. He should strive to accept his fate, congratulating the man that won and will win him flawlessly at the pool and Court tomorrow respectively. Umani Uwemedimo is an Activist and Public Affairs Analyst, writes this piece from Abak, Akwa Ibom State. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 