By Hilary Owowo According to Martin Luther King Jr. “The true measure of a man is not how he behaves in moments of comfort and convenience but how he stands at times of controversy and challenges”. The story of Ibom Air is one landmark achievements that can never be ignored whenever emphasis on global revolution is made. This Mr. Udom Emmanuel has achieved in a time where there was great economic turbulence affecting Nigeria at large. The Government of Akwa Ibom State led by Mr. Udom Emmanuel as Governor has successfully fulfilled its promises, one of which is the establishment of the first State owned Airline which was in the front burner during the electioneering campaigns of last election. Naysayers had postulated and believed that all of the promises made by him during the build up to the general elections were all strategies made to woo supports for his re-election success. They concluded that such an elephant project does not exist, if it was, it shouldn’t be Akwa Ibom where Udom Emmanuel, PDP person is the governor. It would interest you to note that barely one month after their acclaimed postulation, four APC members in the State were employed by the management of that same Airline they claimed never existed. You can now tell yourself who the fools are. Because the existence of the State owned Airline was widely proven by millions of people in and outside Nigeria, the APC could no longer dwell on arguments pertaining its existence, they moved to castigating it with series of unfounded and unsubstantiated mitigations. To them “Ibom Air” was a fanfare and it wasn’t a product of genuine and contemplative economic decision to improve revenue, create jobs, boost tourism to the state and drive traffic to the Victor Attah International Airport in Uyo. The airline ventured was by no means a sincere choice for the people of Akwa Ibom State at large. They further claimed that Governor Emmanuel and his advisers had failed woefully. Going further it wasn’t as they thought because the Governor who is a man of integrity, full with passion for actualizing the common dream of the Akwa Ibom people, brought forth his experience which has yield tremendous results thus far. These achievements, the Ibom Air to be certain has silenced his critics. As a technocrat and financial manager who was in total control of the Banking sector, had recorded great achievements and had also carved a niche for himself without any allegation of fraud in those years. He has reciprocated same fete during this short while as governor of the State. What again will the naysayers say? It might interest you to note that the Federal Government had incessantly strived to revive the Nigerian Airline which has been in the State of incapacitation for ages. But it turned out that the more they tried, they more they failed. Tired of being tagged “a failure”, they abandoned it and today its existence has eluded one’s memory. Wouldn’t you advise them to consult, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, the world’s greatest doctor who has all it takes to put life to the long-decayed airline? If the existence of Ibom Air is believed by people to be a magic, then Mr. Udom Emmanuel is a great magician. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 