Press Release We in the MANDATE EYES, a non-political research and media organization, have come across an irresponsible statement credited to the All Progressives Congress, APC in Akwa Ibom State, which tends to denigrate the personality and integrity of a revered spiritual father in the country. The statement by the All Progressives Congress, signed by their youth leader Iniobong John, Titled: “THAT UNBIBLICAL, PARTISAN PRAYER BY ENOCH ADEBOYE”, claimed that the prayer by Dr Adeboye at the Akwa Ibom State Christmas Carol festival, was ‘satanic’ and ‘politically motivated’. The APC, whose leaders, state chairman and followers surprisingly boycotted the soul lifting spiritual exercise, turned around to mutter that “The satanic prayer by Enoch Adeboye at the Akwa Ibom Carol night that no enemy of the state should see next year was politically motivated and influenced.”
The salient phrase in Adeboye’s prayer which is eliciting the vituperous outburst is “enemies of Akwa Ibom state”, to whom he predicted doom. This leads us to the pertinent questions, who are the enemies of the state and why are the APC leaders in Akwa Ibom scared of the prayers?
In the epistle of Blessed Apostle Paul to Christians in Ephesus, he explained that “For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but principalities, against powers, against rulers of the darkness of the world.”(Ephesians 6:12). Coming from a spiritual leader, these would certainly be the enemies of the state in reference. It beats imagination therefore, that APC leaders in Akwa Ibom could assume that Enoch Adeboye, from whose loins emerged the Vice President of Nigeria, Rev(Prof) Yemi Osinbajo of the APC, was cursing their party? Are they not aware that in Lagos where Papa Adeboye resides, APC members constitute the vast number of congregation members of the church?
Except there is a secret that others in Akwa Ibom are not aware, then certainly the revered General Overseer of the Redeemed Church of God could not have been referring to APC in his prayers. It would be of interest to recall that Prelate Emeritus of the Methodist Church and former national CAN president, Dr. Sunday Mbang(CON) had few months ago, during a state thanksgiving service, urged enemies of Akwa Ibom to repent of their evil ways or suffer the wrath of God. This had equally attracted diatribes from the APC, who preached that the men of God should ask for forgiveness and not punishment on the “enemies of the State”. The state does not necessarily refer to the geographical landmarks, the rivers and other features within the boundary of that territory, the individuals resident in the territory make up the state. In other words, the more than 6million members of the APC, PDP, YDP and other political parties within Akwa Ibom territorial boundaries, constitute the state. Which then means that the prayer of damnation goes to any force out to contrive evil against the entire people of the state. So why does it now pain the APC?
It is possible to deduce that the APC leaders who are irked by the prayers, supposed that Governor Emmanuel’s opponents automatically are enemies of the state. This is far from it.  As a matter of fact, Governor Emmanuel has already flung open his doors welcoming his opponents and other opposition members to join in taking the state to an enviable destination. Such clarion call could not have gone to them, if they had been considered as enemies of the state. May be recent events in the state, including the War Saw threat by those who vowed to capture the state by force and the mayhem unleashed on law abiding citizens of the state by the opposition during the last election would possibly provide answers as to why it’s only members of the APC family that are wailing over the prayers.
Why the blasphemy against God over Friday’s Christmas Carol that has led many to Christ, as seen in the thousands of Akwa Ibom people who went out to receive Jesus Christ into their lives when the servant of God made an altar call shortly after delivering his sermon? As a group, we would therefore wish to remind the Akwa Ibom APC leaders that election period is over, the victory had been sealed at the Supreme Court, and as such they must not politicize everything. That event was not a political gathering, rather it was a spiritual exercise which must not be taken for granted. it was a day our people gathered to return glory to God for the many battles he has fought and won for us as a state in the year under review. Our candid advice is that Iniobong John and his opposition members should ask God for forgiveness for blasphemy The MANDATE EYES strongly condemns the unwarranted attack launched on the General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye by members of the opposition party, the All Progressives Congress, APC in Akwa Ibom State who are obviously not comfortable with the success of the praise and carol service at the 2019 Christmas Carol held at Ibom Hall grounds, Uyo. Signed
Comrade Ernest Akpan
Coordinator Comrade Joseph Okon
Secretary Mandate Eyes
21/12/19 Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 