Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Udom Emmanuel on Monday commissioned an ultra-modern high court of justice complex built to serve cases mostly originating from Oruk Anam Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. While presenting the facility for commissioning, the Chief Judge of Akwa Ibom State, Justice Godwin Abraham thanked Governor Udom Emmanuel for giving urgent attention to the needs of the Judiciary especially, the urgent need for the establishment of a high court in Oruk Anam which according to Justice Abraham, was built within the time interval of three months. The Honourable Chief Judge also hinted that several other new courts were currently being built across the state while more others were undergoing renovation. “We have been able to do all these because funds have been made available by Governor Udom Emmanuel “, Justice Godwin Abraham admitted. He however called for more attention on the Judiciary highlighting areas that equally needed urgent attention. The area of manpower was stressed by Honourable Justice Godwin Abraham as challenging for the Judiciary. According to the Chief Judge, 2012 was the last time recruitment was done in the Judiciary. ” More than 500 staff members of the Judiciary have retired since 2012. The Judiciary is in serious need of replacement for the staff that have retired. We have been running the system with temporal staff and some of them have been with us for more than ten years. I look forward to absorbing them as well as recruit new ones. I plead with His Excellency to please consider. ” For the newly built court, Justice Godwin Abraham said that the implication for the state of arts facilities installed in the court would be the provision of a higher generating set that was capable of powering all the equipments in the court. He appealed for funds from Governor Udom Emmanuel to provide for all that was lacking in the new court, including an utility vehicle and motorcycles which will aid in serving court processes. Justice Abraham cautioned Judiciary workers and the people of Oruk Anam to take good care of the facilities in the court. “Take care of the facilities in this court as if it were your own. It’s wrong to be careless with things simply because they’re public facilities. It’s a very wrong attitude. Wherever I go to, whether it’s an hotel or a court, I take good care of the facilities under my care. We shouldn’t be receiving mails in Uyo asking for replacements at a time we are thinking of adding facilities that you’re yet to have. There are much more to be done. I personally want to dig boreholes for all the courts in the State “. Represented by Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Barrister Uwemedimo Nwoko, Governor Udom Emmanuel said that he was pleased by the quality of job done in the newly commissioned court. He assured that Governor Udom Emmanuel prioritises the Judiciary and is highly concerned over the needs of the Judiciary. Nwoko expressed the gratitude of Governor Udom Emmanuel to the Judiciary for their support. “Thank you My Lords for all the support, protection and guidance that you give. I register the appreciation of His Excellency on this very unique occasion and my Lords, I assure you that His Excellency is committed. There are so much more that has to be done and I must acknowledge that. The Judiciary needs a lot more attention. His Excellency is equally concerned about it. There is no time he doesn’t show that concern but he is constrained. Accept the assurances that more will be done on the issues bothering the Judiciary “, Nwoko said. Matters of Oruk Anam extraction pending in Ukanafun High Court that are not in advanced level of trial have been redirected to the just commissioned court in Oruk Anam. The people and Stakeholders of Oruk Anam expressed gratitude to Governor Udom Emmanuel and the Chief Judge of Akwa Ibom State for the priority given to the need for a court in Oruk Anam. The Chairman of Oruk Anam, Mr Idiong, the member representing Oruk Anam in Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon Udo Kieriam and the Paramount Ruler of Oruk Anam were among those who spoke on behalf of Oruk Anam people on the occasion. The ceremony was well attended by members of the bench, members of the bar, Judiciary workers and members of the publ Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 