By Tom FredFish For those young people, elders, in some cases, and members of the opposition party in Akwa Ibom State, who have elected themselves to be harbingers of falsehood, misconception and are well schooled in confining the governor of Akwa Ibom state, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, to media trial, and jump into conclusion that he has failed in office, just to reinforce their lies and propaganda, providence, as it is said, is the judge of all things. If in their opinion Mr. Emmanuel is a failure, because they refused to understand that each administration comes with its different agenda, then, one can conclude that such opinion is an outcome of failure on their part to utilize simple grammar to express themselves as shareholders in the Akwa Ibom project. Grammar is the use of words to make proper sentences. It can be described as the rule that governs the linguistic behaviour of a group of speakers. To some enthusiastic commentators, who are married with the word, failure, the use of words does not only portray what seems to happen, but the import of why the words were used. To be specific, the word, “failure”, is the neglect or omission of the expected or required action by an individual or group. Thus, to examine if Mr. Emmanuel has failed in office, certain concerns such as: what were Mr. Emmanuel’s promise to Akwa Ibom people? Has he fulfilled those promises or renege, needs to be addressed. In view of Emmanuel’s campaign promises before assuming office, his policies, actions and inactions in the last four and half years, one can conveniently use that to assess his performance in office. Addressing a mammoth crowd of party supporters at the Uyo township stadium on January 20, 2015, Mr. Emmanuel promised that he would stand on the sustainable development in the state if voted into office. He noted that he would sustain and improve upon the free and compulsory education started by previous administration. He also promise to embark on aggressive agricultural revolution to ensure food availability, build infrastructure to make Akwa Ibom State University one of the best in the country. He promised to initiate programmes that will increase job opportunities for Akwa Ibom youths, make teachers welfare a top priority, indulge in aggressive industrialization, work to develop the Ibaka deep seaport in Mbo, revive and enhance sports, especially in secondary schools, and make the state experience infrastructural transformation and economic boom. Since assuming office in 2015, Mr. Emmanuel has worked to sustain the tempo of development he met in the state according to his assurances. He continued and enhanced various aspects of the free and compulsory education policy, renovated primary and secondary schools, engaged more teachers and lecturers, and undertook aggressive infrastructural development in the State’s University campuses, as well as the college of education and her polytechnic. Infrastructure like new administrative block and faculty buildings adorns Ikot Akpaden and Obio Okpa campuses of the Akwa Ibom State University, internals roads, mini theatres, academic discipline are some among the various gesture making the university one to reckon with. Emmanuel’s food sufficiency programme since assuming office is an eye-opener to Akwa Ibom people that our lands are fertile and is one of the best for farming. It takes a good leader to articulate policies to action. Local government councils, women, youths and individuals have now embraced farming as a business and means of livelihood. Crops like tomatoes, garden eggs, cucumbers, yams which many Akwa Ibom people believed were exclusively for other state’s cultivation are now grown in the state. Many youths who had remained unemployed because of their persistent search for white collar jobs are now farmers and employers of labour. The governor’s programme to increase job opportunities and build human capacity in Akwa Ibom has paid off. He has trained hundreds of Akwa Ibom youths in agriculture, computer science and power. Inem Johnson, one of the beneficiaries utilized the training in power to his advantage. He registered a company that deals on solar installation and maintenance. He is now a subcontractor who gets contracts from construction companies to install solar lights on roads. The establishment of Akwa Ibom Enterprise and Employment Scheme, AKEES, has opened up the opportunities for Akwa Ibom youths to be employed and own offices to drive their private businesses. More entrepreneurs have discovered their calling due to the Dakkada philosophy of Emmanuel’s administration. Emmanuel has also mesmerized naysayers with his industrialization policy. As promised, he has undertaken an aggressive industrialization drive with the construction and commissioning of over 16 industries in line with his pact in 2015. More industries are being established. The Ibaka deep seaport and industrial Park is one project that is dear to the heart of Mr. Emmanuel. As acknowledged in his campaign promise, he set up a committee in his first month in office, headed by Barr. Mfon Usoro to pursue its actualisation. The first phase of the Deep seaport according to the chairperson of the committee, is 70% near completion. Sports in Akwa Ibom state has begun to reap its benefits under Emmanuel’s four years in office. The state’s annual secondary schools sports festival has recorded milestone in exposing talents to national and international reckoning. The Akwa United Football Club has continued to remain at the top of Nigeria Football League. More stadiums are being constructed and previous ones renovated, all in accordance with his promise to revive sports in the state. Akwa Ibom State is currently experiencing rapid economic transformation, much faster than the Nigerian average. The quality of life index has grown more than 300% in the last four years. This is because Emmanuel paid greater emphasis on the provision of social and economic infrastructure, which has culminated to an unprecedented construction and commissioning of roads and erecting of infrastructure in the state in line with his campaign promises. Over 1, 700 km of roads have been constructed. Mr. Emmanuel is working to improve on power generation with the construction of power plants at strategic locations in the state. The speed at the ongoing construction of overhead bridge (Fly-Over) Project at Ikot Oku Ikono/Ekom Iman roundabout, Uyo, the 21 storey building at banking layout, the permanent terminal building at the airport all testify to the passion of Mr. Emmanuel for infrastructural development. The economy of the state is not left out. The operation of Ibom Air alone has added to the increased internal revenue of the state and businesses are growing by the day. If fulfilling all his campaign promises amounts to failure, then Mr. Emmanuel is on track to make history as the governor who will fail positively. The healthcare policy of Mr. Emmanuel’s administration is consciously targeted at making life meaningful to humanity. He made strong determination and commitment to revamp the poor health facilities in the state to fulfil his campaign promises by reconstructing and equipping General Hospitals in the state with modern state of the art facilities, training of medical personnel, as well as setting up of emergency response team for the state. Truth be told, Mr. Emmanuel has kept his promises to Akwa Ibom people beyond what he promised. He has only failed to throw cash indiscriminately to the pockets of few, who deliberately refused to cash in, to his policies and programmes since 2015. Dr. Tom FredFish is a public affairs analyst. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 