As Christians the world over commemorate the birth of Jesus Christ , the Saviour of mankind, The Member Representing Ukanafun/OrukAnam Federal Constituency in the house of Representatives, Hon. Unyime Idem says it will be a  disservice to our Lord Jesus Christ, if people do not reflect on the virtues of love, peace and unity that the birth of Christ brought to humanity and seek to live like him. Hon. Idem in his Christmas message to his Constituents said “two thousand years ago, angels heralded the birth of Jesus Christ , our Lord and savior with the eternal words, ” Glory to God in the heighest , and on earth peace, Goodwill towards men. ”
He therefore called on his people to make the songs of the angels their song and re- commit themselves to giving glory to God for his great love towards them. Idem , Deputy Chairman Communications Committee in the House of Representatives, explained that the story of Jesus Christ holds several lessons for people, saying that though he was born in the manger , his birth was celebrated in Heaven. The people’s Representative advised those whose circumstances of birth have been less than ennobling never to give up because heaven may be interested in their future. While acknowledging the contributions of his Constituents towards a successful outing in 2019, Hon. Idem reiterated his Committment to creating the environment for everyone  who may have been impeded by circumstance of birth to rise beyond his or her limitations ,assuring that his representation has opened vaults of opportunity in almost all spheres of life for those who were born in mangers to rise and be what God ordained them to be. Admitting that Jesus brought peace to earth by his birth, Hon. Idem reminded his Constituents that one of the demands of their faith is to live in peace with their neighbors and  friends as well as adherents of other Faiths and religions.
” We should have goodwill towards all men in general and our federal Constituency in particular so that we can weave a new Ukanafun/OrukAnam Federal Constituency with threads of love.let us use this Celebration to recommit ourselves to the course of making our Constituency the citadel of peace and love.” He pointed out that Christ’s message of love and hope , Should aspire his Constituents this Christmas to do their duties to others and see that duty fulfilled In their day to day relationships in order to make the Federal Constituency better. While wishing them a merry Christmas and a prosperous 2020 in advance, Hon. Idem advised his Constituents to continue to share their blessings with their neighbors by reaching out to those in need.
“We lay the foundation for a more upright, righteous and just Ukanafun/OrukAnam Federal Constituency. We pray that this Christmas you would spend more time during your family worship to pray for Our Federal Constituency, Akwa Ibom State and Nigeria” he added. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 