The People Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State has extended a hand of fellowship to the All Progressive Congress (APC). The PDP made the call today during a press briefing at the party Secretariat in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. Speaking during the press briefing, the State party chairman, Obong Paul Ekpo noted that the Supreme Court ruling which upheld the election of Governor Udom Emmanuel was a testimony of the support the PDP enjoyed during the election. Obong Ekpo urges the APC to join the PDP in the development of the state. According to him, the supreme court rulling was the conclusion of the entire electoral process. “Having come to the end of the post electoral judicial process, which signals the conclusion of the entire electoral process into different offices, save the court ordered rerun in Essien Udim Local Government Area in three legislative houses( House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senate). “As a party that has been the sole supplier of critical leadership manpower for our state since the return of democracy in 1999, we are deeply thankful to the citizenry of our state who have at every opportunity reaffirmed their belief and support for us through the ballot box. “The mantle of leadership has been handed back to Governor Udom Emmanuel to complete his full season of two terms and we join him in extending the olive branch to all our friends from other political parties, to join hearts, heads and hands with him to build an Akwa a ibom of our dreams- a state which we can bequeath to our succeeding generations as a goodly inheritance without blemish”  Press Statement As the curtain falls, being the statement by the state chairman of the people’s Democratic Party Akwa ibom state chapter on the conclusion of the post -electoral judicial processes following the 2019 elections Gentlemen of the press On Wednesday , 18th December, 2019 the Supreme Court of Nigeria gave judgement in an appeal filed by Obong Nsima Ekere and the All progressives Congress against the concurrent Judgements of the Election Petition Tribunal and the Court of Appeal which unanimously upheld the electoral victory and INEC’s declaration of our great Party’s Governorship candidate, Governor Udom Emmanuel as the winner of the polls. Mandatorily, our party was joined as a party in the suits right from its initial birthplace at the tribunal to its eventual cemetery at the Supreme Court. Having come to the end of the post electoral judicial process, which signals the conclusion of the entire electoral process into different offices, save the court ordered rerun in Essien Udim Local Government Area in three legislative houses( House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senate). As a party that has been the sole supplier of critical leadership manpower for our state since the return of democracy in 1999, we are deeply thankful to the citizenry of our state who have at every opportunity reaffirmed their belief and support for us through the ballot box. They have always resisted the temptation of testing the unknown or experimenting with the promised fantasies of the various oppositions we have had in the past . Particularly, in the last elections, they stood firm in the face of intimidation, assaults, insults, mockery and all sort of unimaginable challenges. The kept their entire faith and reliance on the OnlyGod, who determines the occupant of power, the onlyGod of justice, equity and fairness and in turn that God didn’t put us to shame. He showed up for the state mightily and that is why at every opportunity, we are not tired or ashamed to return all thanks and glory to Him. Dear friends, I can firmly announce that the battle of elections are over and done with, the battle of statehood must commence-this battle needs all hands to the pumps. This is a battle that must be fought with all our collective mights and won for the sake of history and posterity. This battle is the attainment of the Akwa Ibom project. It is the battle for the survival and identification of the Akwa Ibom persona; the struggle to attain our rightful place in the affairs of our nation and then truly launch ourselves into global limelight . The mantle of leadership has been handed back to Governor Udom Emmanuel to complete his full season of two terms and we join him in extending the olive branch to all our friends from other political parties, to join hearts, heads and hands with him to build an Akwa a ibom of our dreams- a state which we can bequeath to our succeeding generations as a goodly inheritance without blemish. We appeal to members of the opposition to accept the unity call of the Governor and contribute ideas, mobilize physical and spiritual support for the Governor in this his second and last term. Let me now specially congratulate the divinely mandated, electorally successful and judiciary confirmed Governor of Akwa Ibom state, Governor Udom Emmanuel- truly the Lord who saw the total reliance of our Governor on him, showed up mightily on our behave and granted us unquestionable victory. This victory covered all our candidates and we are witnesses to the efficacy of the OnlyGod watch word. I also congratulate the members of the National and state Assemblies on their success at the polls and court. I again remind them to call to mind the required sacrifice demanded by public office. There will be no excuse for poor performance, therefore all our candidates must strive to deliver creditably on their mandate, conscious that their scorecard will affect the future chances of our party . As the Chairman of our great party, I will reiterate the fact that the doors of our party are open for all those seeking or desiring to join us afresh, or those returning home after a sojourn in strange political lands. We can assure them that there will be no segregation or discrimination, as we are all one in the Akwa ibom project. I hereby direct all ward and chapter chairmen to create receptive environment for those intending to join us. Again, as I had earlier intimated, our party structure in Essien Udim have been fully energized and ready for the court-ordered rerun coming up next year . We have, as usual, invited the God that gave us victory before to take us to this electoral battle and grant us success. Our candidates must knock on all doors, talk to the electorates, campaign extensively and get ready to win. I cannot end my thoughts without thanking the entire leadership and membership of the party for the huge cooperation I have received in the year just about to end. Everyone worked tirelessly to achieve the victory we now enjoy. Deserving particular mention are the Organising, Publicity and legal departments of our party. The Organising secretariat wither to ensure that we had primaries that reflected the wishes of the electoral college, this is evident in the fact that there was no pre-election court case. The Publicity secretariat became our attack and defence lines, they kept the populace aware of the plans of the opposition and battled them to a stand still. The legal department conducted our cases in the list prides soon so manner, this is obvious from the judgements we’ve obtained. The other departments like the general secretariat, youth and women directorate, finance department were stellar in the discharge of their responsibilities. The Deputy chairman and Vice chairmen were definitional in their support and I owe them a debt of gratitude. Let me now specially thank the press community for their support before, during and after the elections . We are indeed grateful. I wish Akwa ibom people a merry Christmas and a prosperous 2020 Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 