The Deputy Chairman, Communications Committee and Member Representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Unyime Idem has decried the neglect experienced by Akwa Ibom State in the area of Road Infrastructure from the Federal Government of Nigeria. Hon. Idem stated this on the floor of the House on Thursday December 12, 2019 while moving a Motion of Urgent Public Importance on the Collapse of Ikot Ukpong Eren – Ikot Mbong Bridge and the road leading to the bridge. The bridge which was constructed by the colonial masters in the colonial era unfortunately got its first hit during the civil war when it was bombed and shabbily rehabilitated thereafter with no fresh construction or proper rehabilitation done since then; which has led to the loss of several lives, some of whose corpses are yet to be found as they were washed away by the Ikot Ukpong Eren – Ikot Mbong River Hon. Idem described the bridge and the roads linked by the bridge as a death trap, devastated on both sides by severe gully erosion and called on the Federal Government to rehabilitate the bridge, construct the roads linked by the bridge and other Federal Government roads in Akwa Ibom State. He further stated that the implications of the Collapsed bridge include the paralysis of economic activities within the communities and the State as a whole. The House unanimously adopted the motion and resolved as follows: 1. That the Federal Ministry of Works and the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA) should urgently award contract for the construction of Ikot Ukpong Eren – Ikot Mbong Bridge and the total rehabilitation of the road linked by the bridge 2. That the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to urgently attend to the needs of the people and families that lost their loved ones to the unfortunate collapse of the bridge and the aftermath incidence. 3. That the Committees on Works, FERMA and NEMA to ensure implementation. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 