By Tom FredFish Continuity in governance is a principle in establishing defined procedures that allows successors to continue the essential operations, policies and programmes of their predecessor’s administration in a state or country. However, this concept is usually impracticable in Nigeria, as records show that successive administrations especially state governments in the last decade, have had successive confused governments that worked hard to erase trace of previous governments it replaced. This is totally at variance with the spirit and letters of the concept which states that: “government is a continuum.” The university system affords us a template that “government is continuum” is feasible and that we can draw a line of reference to the happenings in Akwa Ibom state. In a university system, one government transits into another with no remarkable difference or ceremony. For instance, the ceremonial gown of a preceding Vice-Chancellor becomes the toga of an in-coming one. The Vice-Chancellor’s lodge does not change or wear a new look. There are usually no changes in the car/driver, domestic and official staff when VCs change baton. There is beauty in university administration that politicians should take cue from. Mr. Udom Emmanuel, the Akwa Ibom state governor deserve commendation for keeping his promise to continue the lofty programmes of past administrations. The pledge by Emmanuel that he will sustain and continue the developmental strides of the past administrations has been music to the ears of millions of Akwa Ibom people whose hopes and desire is to see the state making quantum leap in all areas of development, and continue to be an example of what an inspired and dedicated leadership can mean to the welfare, psyche and orientation of the people. True to his words, Mr. Emmanuel made frantic effort to see that the state revenue do not go down the drain by embarking on programmes and policies of past administrations. The first step towards that regard was retaining most of the commissioners and aides who served under the previous administration. He then initiated a committee for the realization of the Ibom Deep seaport initiated by previous administration. Further to that, he embarked on continuing some of the road projects started by the immediate past administration in the state. The Uyo-Ikot Ekpene road which is 95% completed is a good example of Emmanuel’s desire to offer top notch dividends to Akwa Ibom people. Emmanuel retained the continuity tempo by embarking on the construction of the second runway, parameter fencing and permanent terminal block of the Victor Attah International Airport, Uyo. Irrespective of the challenges met at the Ibom Specialist Hospital and the Four Points by Sheraton hotel, Ikot Ekpene, Emmanuel ensured that entrance to the Specialist Hospital remains open for the public while efforts at completing the Four Points by Sheraton hotel is on top gear. At a time when Akwa Ibom people thought that all hope were lost for the Ibom science park project initiated by the Victor Attah administration,  Emmanuel proved critiques wrong when he recently lunched the reconstruction of the project renamed the Ibom Blue Sea Science and Technology Park, Uyo. Among other benefits, when completed, the Park would aid in the training of youths in various aspect of Information and Communication Technology (ICT), advancing Akwa Ibom state as an exporter of skills and technology in Nigeria. The fact that Mr. Emmanuel did not abandoned these projects among others – many of which had cost huge amount of taxpayer’s money for his own agenda, show in act and deed, that Emmanuel is not just a promise keeper but a governor that is sensitive to the yearnings of the people whose quantum leap will see to a successful two terms in office. Dr. Tom FredFish is a public affairs analyst Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 