By Umoh-Obong Kingsley It is longer news that since Deacon Udom Gabriel Emmanuel clinched the mantle of leadership at the Hilltop Mansion of Akwa-Abasi Ibom State, he has left no stone unturned in changing the narrative of the state. His determination has been to manage the state affairs to the realization of optimum benefits of a robust and manifest growth into a desired major player in Nigeria’s and region’s economy by exposing all areas and sectors of the state to vigorous, successive, scalable, and appreciable economic activities through empowering private enterprises to take the lead in the state’s economy. Since the Governor assumed office in 2015, Akwa Ibom State has experienced rapid economic transformation, much faster than the Nigerian average. The quality of life index has grown more than 300%. Greater emphasis is paid by government to provision of social and economic infrastructures, urban and rural areas have become complementary as government provides adequate water, electricity, schools, health facilities, community buildings and market stalls in rural areas, and agri-business is massively promoted. With Governor Emmanuel on the helms of affairs, the state is blessed with several untapped mineral resources, a potential that has lent itself to the industrialisation drive of government. Government is determined to tow the path of economic diversification in aviation, tourism, and agriculture besides petroleum and continues to play a major role in entrepreneurial and industrial development to keep the economy in a perpetual state of growth as well as increase the level of exploitation of natural resources. The Udom Emmanule-led government intends to build a capital intensive economy rather than a labour intensive one, as well as a knowledge driven economy for global competiveness. The coordinated approach to getting individuals, corporate organisations, groups and communities to participate in the development of Akwa Ibom is fast getting people out of poverty through Employment Sensitisation, Investment Attraction, Community Entrepreneurship, Economic and Social Indicators management, Human Capital Development, Aviation and Tourism among others. Taking a view at the 21-storey office complex for International Oil Companies (IOCs) located at the banking layout Udo Udoma Avenue, Uyo, one might mistake the place to be Abuja, Lagos or any other ‘top’ city in the country. The building when completed and commissioned, will relocate multinational companies operating outside Akwa Ibom, into the state, thereby creating more jobs, accelerate development and cause economic boom. This is one of the makings of a noiseless achiever. It is a general belief that every government only brings about development in a state, if at all, during the first tenure, and won’t do anything during the second term. But the government of Mr. Udom Emmanuel has proven beyond reasonable doubt that a government can work effectively in its second term for the benefit of the masses. The hitherto civil service state has fast become an industrial hub of a nation, with influx of investors following the peaceful and enabling environment ensured by the state government for both indigenes and investors. The peaceful coexistence came to being when the Governor signed into force, the Cultism and other Violent Behaviour Prohibition Order 2018 with effect from March 12, 2018, binding in all the 31 local government areas of the state, and attached a maximum penalty of 7 years imprisonment for the culprits. This law re-energises the already existing criminal code law, Cap 38 Laws of Akwa Ibom State dated 2000. The law proscribed 33 cult groups in the state including Vikings, Black Axe, KKK,  Buccaneers, Mafia, Luttox (Junior Black Axe), Debam; Dewell, Icelanders, Red Skins, Pirates, Amoc, Akwa Marines; and Utoto Groups (419). Others which are found in secondary and Primary Schools are, the Luttox, The Red Skins, St. Stephens, Dewell, Sept 11 Group, Secret Sons of Satan, King Cobra, J.V (Junior Vikings), Bats, Predators, Black Ladies, Black Cross, Scavengers, Skylolo, Sons of Nights, Blood Brotherhood, Junior Buccaneers, White Angels; and Musket. As a follow up to the the Cultism and other Violent Behaviour Prohibition Order 2018 signed into law, the Akwa Ibom State government, in November 2019, suspended 71 students of Etoi Secondary School indefinitely for indiscipline, in a bid to instill sanity in public schools, following the rampant rascality among schools in the Uyo. Kingsley writes in from Uyo Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 