By Umani Uwemedimo After pondering on series of publications made on social and perhaps print media with all, somersaulting to an unsubstantiated propagation that the shoe, that is to say legacies left behind by former governor Godswill Akpabio is an oversized shoe for the present governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel. I was bewildered to some extent that I asked myself. Did the former governor of Akwa Ibom State now a castellated Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Chief Godswill Akpabio stationed a Jerusalem in the State during time as governor? Excluding of Heaven or Paradise as out-rightly christened by the Jehovah Witnesses’ congregation, if Akpabio was unable to at least stimulate Akwa Ibom equivalent to, if not better than Jerusalem before the expiration of his tenure as governor, then his band of supporters are undisputably making caricature of him. In our dialect, one would say ” ado edong”. I believe if their katzenjammer is about the execution of projects, everyone, both in Akwa Ibom and outside the shores of the State would sternly rebuke them. The present governor of the State, Mr. Udom Emmanuel has invested copiously in executing impressive projects. I believe there’s more to their brouhaha than what we are cognizant of. At the end of this piece, we would be able to apprehend if Gov. Udom Emmanuel has truly failed as conceived by the harum sacrums. Before Akpabio’s tenure as governor elapsed, so many maniacal activities within the State had made people to see it as a citadel of insecurity and anti-social activities. The place was deserted by investors, tourists and even indigenes because of these vices. Politically motivated assassination and kidnapping which were strategies for either driving away or incapacitating politicians they opined to be rebels or uncompromised. The State was hot and blooded for anything good to come from it. This tempo, they wanted Mr. Udom Emmanuel to maintain. Looking at antecedent, tertiary institutions across the State were regarded as militia encampments. Our students were brainwashed into cultism, taught how to handle sophisticated and locally prepared arms. They succeeded in this by always maintaining ” I cannot be giving you fish everyday, allow me to teach you how to fish”. Some became victims of school dropout, but that didn’t alter the fact that even the ones in school were not manipulated or induced into thuggery. This was their sole essence of being indoctrinated. While some of this boys were killed in active services, others were used, dumped with jeopardized futures. Some others were even bewitched and killed by their paymasters. This is what was expected of the present governor, to either raise or maintain the realm of evil forest cum cult activities in the State. It’ll also interest you to note that if not completely annihilated, cultism in Akwa Ibom State has been reduced to its minimal. You can now behold the rationale why the pioneers and sponsors of cultism are against the present governor. Execution of monumental projects and commissioning of uncompleted projects were like generally embraced cultures in their time. After dispatching more than triple of the real amount for a certain project, the project would be left unfinished but commissioned and hyped on television channels, Radio stations print media and as well social media. The Ibom Tropicana Entertainment Center according to them was going to be an ultra-modern relaxation center, but tears enveloped my eye the day I realized that billions of naira was released for same project but yet, Ibom Tropicana Entertainment Center presently is nothing but an international popcorn stand. Yes, I heard they sell one of the best popcorns there and thus, people trip in daily to purchase the popcorn. The Nest of Champions, otherwise referred to as the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium is another monument that strikes me sick each time I ascertain its actual standard as proposed by them, how much was released for that project and its current fate. A whopping sum of N100bn was proposed and released for an Olympic-sized stadium with so many facilities like, Basketball courts, lawn tennis courts, volleyball courts, swimming pools, among other essential facilities. I didn’t mean for you to cry, but I want you to note that the monument called Godswill Akpabio International Stadium is nothing but an International Viewing Center. It’s actually the best in the world. Again, they wanted the present governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel to reign in this state. They’re jokers of the century to have believed everyone would posses their deceitful tendencies. Mr. Udom Emmanuel has not failed and will never fail his people. They were the ones who failed Akwa Ibom State. Umani Uwemedimo is an Activist and Public Affairs analyst, writes this piece from Abak, Akwa Ibom State Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 