It is true that health care sector is characterised by constant reforms aimed at the efficient delivery of safe, effective, and high-quality care. Effective leadership is required to lead and drive changes at all levels of the health care system to actualise the goals of an effective health care management system. There’s a say ” health is wealth” and this, Gov. Udom Emmanuel is complementing his industralization drive with effective and efficient healthcare delivery which had automatically reanimated the whole polity. There’s no where industralization could thrive effectively without an effect healthcare delivery. A degrading healthcare is as good as killing the entire citizens: this, you should ask yourself, ” who would draw benefits from an industry when there’s no one available in the land? Yes, the wholly revamped of our healthcare can be clearly seen in the Udom Emmanuel-led Administration and this, has received accolades from expertise both in home and in the diaspora, The Ituk Mbang General, Etinan General Hospital, Ikot Ekpene General Hospital, Ikono General Hospital etc, are all case studies. Over the years, the Etinan General Hospital was faced with a saddening situation: it was deserted and unaccessible due to the poor state of facilities and other anti-social activities which had always occurred there. But today the the story has changed, the place is well equipped with medical facilities and good infrastructures. This has paved an avenue which influx of people troop in for medical treatment. Improving patient care became a priority for His Excellency Deacon Udom Emmanuel as seen in the renovation of Ituk Mbang General Hospital, full rehabilitation of the gynecology, pediatrics, accident and emergency department of the Hospital. It was a dream of His Excellency, Deacon Udom Emmanuel to get all these done within these few years and today, Akwa Ibom State is ranked the best interms of revamped healthcare in Nigeria. But it is not going to stop here. One thing that outstands countries like Japan, America, Brazil, China and Russia is their ability never to get satisfied in their present successes. Gov. Udom Emmanuel as a technocrat understands these principles, and has stated clearly in his manifesto that 2019-2023 is a “completion agenda” for his Government. What is the completion agenda? The completion agenda is all about linking Akwa Ibom State to some other cities like the aforementioned cities. Having a sound Health sector which has been ranked the best isn’t good enough for us. This is why Gov. Udom has drawn his map towards coining a name for the State. He is working effortlessly towards making our health sector the best in Africa and one of the best in the world. Today, we have a Syringe Factory which is considered the first in State owned Syringe Factory in West Africa. People in the neighbouring countries troop into Akwa Ibom State to purchase our State made syringes. Even the hardened critics of Gov. Udom Emmanuel have seen how far he has taken Akwa Ibom to. With time, Akwa Ibom just like Dubai will become a destination for all races.       Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 