By Ekemini Akpan Malcolm X postulated that “Education is the passport to the future, for tomorrow belongs to those who prepare for it today”. With the level of achievements recorded by His Excellency, Mr. Udom Emmanuel in the education sector, one would deduce that he has plugged the cause of a renewed Akwa Ibom to the admiration of many, including his worst critics. Gov. Udom Emmanuel has rewritten the Akwa Ibom story in the education sector. He is blazing the trail. With great sincerity of purpose, the Governor has taken the free and compulsory education policy of the State Government to another level. Students in Primary and Secondary schools are provided with up-to-date textbooks and computer to boost their learning skills. Mr. Udom is committed to achieving a globally competitive workforce in a world that is increasingly being shaped by technology thereby making education Paramount. The state Government is ensuring compliance with the curriculum, education policies, and world best practices in the primary, secondary/technical schools, and tertiary institutions across the State. In the same strain, the Udom Emmanuel led administration is continually creating a more conducive learning environment through the massive rehabilitation and reconstruction of classroom blocks, library blocks and halls. Construction of hostels , provision of science and laboratory equipments and the supply of dual desks in schools across the 31 LGAs of the State and the revitalization of various ICT laboratories in some public and private schools. Udom’s commitment to education for the Akwa Ibom child has been proven in his payment of WASSCE fees for all final year students in public secondary schools, payment of NABTEB fees for all students in public technical colleges and also providing funds for laboratory reagents for practical examinations. The tertiary institutions are not left out of the instauration Mr. Udom Emmanuel has given to the Education Sector. The story has been incontestable from the College of Education Afaha Nsit to the Akwa Ibom State Polytechnic Ikot Osurua. The University of Uyo and The Akwa Ibom State University will always be obliged to the Governor for his benevolence. Oscillating from the facilitation of accreditation of courses in some schools to the provision of infrastructures to the construction of internal roads. With unfathomable commitment and passion, Gov. Udom Emmanuel has set Akwa Ibom State on a pedestal in the Education Sector. His love and support for Education is barefaced with evidence of exceptional performances by indigenes of the State within the Country and across the Globe. Today the name of the State which sits pretty on the Global calendar of scholarly excellence has continue Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 