By Bassey Ibiatisuho In leadership experience is good, but innovation and sound ideas are better and today, the member representing the good people of Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Unyime Idem has not only proven that but has also risen above the erroneous belief that “First Timers need experience to achieve much.” Six months after assuming office in the Green Chambers to speak for the people of Ukanafun and Oruk Anam, the voice has been so loud with the impact felt from Ekparakwa to Ikot Ibritam, from Nkek Idim to Ndot Usung Idim, from Ikot Una to Ikot Etim announcing that truly, something good can come out of Usung Atiat. It has been 195 days of interpreting his vision and mission for a peaceful, united and a developed Ukanafun and Oruk Anam and Hon. Idem wasted no time in making his intention known on the floor of the House that he means business in politics when he moved a motion in July calling for the rehabilitation of the 72 year old Nigeria Institute for Palm Oil Research – NIFOR, Oruk Anam sub-station, that move caught the attention of the House and the ‘Ayes’ had it. Fulfilling one of his campaign promises of developing entrepreneurial skills and providing jobs, Hon. Idem in August launched his first constituency project to train five thousand youths from the area in various skills and to realize that, he went further to publicly announced the donation of his four years salaries and allowances for the execution of the empowerment programme, such an unprecedented move can only come from someone who believes that giving a man a fish is not as good as teaching him how to fish. In September, as a lover of education, Hon. Idem distributed 50,000 exercise books, text books and other educational materials to pupils and students across the federal constituency to complement the free and compulsory education of the Akwa Ibom state government. The period also saw the lawmaker enter into agreement with the Finnish government through her Ambassador to Nigeria Jyrki Pulkkinen to establish a 1000 capacity Finnish ICT Hub and Institute in Akwa Ibom, partnership with Federal Ministry of Rural Development to rehabilitate Market Road in Ukanafun as well as construction of Ukanafun/Ekparakwa Road which are all due to commence in early 2020. These achievements in the short period of time is not surprising, especially to those who remember how fast and successful Idems Ultimate Limited grew in providing telecommunications service to Nigerians or how impactful Stamford Microfinance Bank Limited has been to the people of the state in particular and Nigerians generally. All these and many more can only be attributed to the ingenuity of Hon. Unyime Idem, a business manager and administrator par excellence who is on the same mission to fast-track development in Ukanafun/Oruk Anam federal constituency. So while Charles de Gaulle echoed that “Politics is too serious a matter to be left to the politicians,” Ukanafun/Oruk Anam is lucky for the first time to have a proven Business Manager as a federal lawmaker, perhaps that account to why Hon. Unyime Idem has stood out among his ‘politician’ contemporaries in service delivery to his constituents to attest to the fact that if management and accountability are key in public office then only good businessmen are good enough for political offices. His dexterity has seen him named as member into various committees in the House of Representatives like the House Committee on Communications where he is the Vice Chairman, House Committee on ICT among others and his commitment has also earned him awards and recognitions from local, national and international organizations. Mindful of the fact that to whom much is given, much is expected, Hon. Idem has returned as a good businessman to give account, he has returned as a good steward to present his scorecard and has returned as a good leader to interact with his people on how to stay focus on the task and goal of making Ukanafun/Oruk Anam federal constituency a reference point for good representation and plans to leave it better than it was met. Let it be heard across the 24 Wards in Ukanafun/Oruk Anam federal constituency that indeed UnyimeAbasi like John the Baptist of old is here to prepare the way for economic renaissance which will restore the dignity of the area as the great commercial nerve centre of Akwa Ibom State. When the drums are rolled out on Monday December 23 for the constituency briefing and foundation laying for skills acquisition centres in Ukanafun and Oruk Anam, it would be clear as it was in the beginning that Hon. Unyime Josiah Idem means business in politics. Bassey Ibiatisuho writes from Uyo Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 