The people of Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency have commended the member representing the area in the House of Representatives, Hon. Unyime Idem for the effective representation given to them in the National Assembly the last six months. The people who came out in hundreds stated this at the maiden constituency briefing and foundation laying for skills acquisition centres in the two local government areas by Hon. Idem at the Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Entrepreneurial Skills Acquisition and Empowerment Initiative Centre in Ukanafun. According to them, it was the first time Ukanafun/Oruk Anam had it so good in the House of Representatives, a federal lawmaker who represented the interest of everyone and promised to continue supporting him to any level to ensure he succeeds in providing the area with the dividends of democracy. Earlier in his briefing, Hon. Idem who is the Vice Chairman, House Committee on Communications thanked God for the journey so far and the people of the area for believing in him during the election, adding that their decision to elect him to the House of Representatives has yielded a good result. Listing his achievements in the last six months, the lawmaker said aside being a member of 12 committees in the lower chambers, he has sponsored three motions which include, the need to revamp the Nigeria Institute for Oil Palm Research – NIFOR in Oruk Anam, the need for the federal government to construct the collapse Ikot Ukpong Eren-Ikot Mbong bridge and road in Oruk Anam and the need for increased security presence on federal roads during the festive season. On projects and programmes accomplished, he mentioned the distribution of 50,000 text and note books to schools across the federal constituency, facilitation of the recruitment of 14 constituents into the Nigeria Police Force, flagging off of the training and empowerment of 5000 constituents, donation of four years salaries and allowances as a lawmaker for the training and empowerment of the constituents, establishment of an ICT hub and institute in partnership with the government of Finland among others. He promised a better outing in 2020, saying that life touching bills were in the works that will directly affect the youths and the students of the constituency in particular and Nigerians in general. The high point of the briefing was the foundation laying for the construction of 2 Nos. Skills Acquisition Centres in Ukanafun and Oruk Anam which he promised will be completed in March 2020 for commissioning. In the spirit of Christmas, Hon. Idem presented 24 cows, 240 bags of rice and five million naira to the 24 wards of the federal constituency as well as five hundred thousand and wrappers to some widows in the area. The event attracted political, religious and traditional leaders who all poured encomiums on the member representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam federal constituency for his achievements so far. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 