By Umani Uwemedimo It is not surprising for one to wake up from his bed to read a script as grotesque as a poor wish devoid of any iota of goodwill for their state moreso, coming from one who may be described as being oblivious of the State. As a result of the ease of communication – a feature of the new media, we have been forced to see what we would not have consciously seen; read what we never would have read and as well stomach all sorts of junk not meant for right thinking humans. This has necessitated a rethink on whether the new media is actually helping or destroying us.
Hate speeches, fake news, epileptic information and varying forms of defamation have been spewed across social media channels about the government, its activities and public office holders, so that it has become a herculean task, (if not impossible) for those in authority to maintain the trust of the electorates. The Lords of the “airwaves” have tried to, and in most cases, succeeded in reducing the integrity of public office holders to rambles. Little wonder why the government is also clamping down on them to serve as a deterrent to others.
Ordinarily, it is the place of any right-thinking citizen, irrespective of social standing, age, religion and ethnic group to wish their state everything good. Even God had instructed the Israelites to pray for the good of Jerusalem.
“Seek the prosperity of the city to which I have sent you as exiles. Pray to the LORD on its behalf, for if it prospers, you too will prosper” (Jer 29:7). Our public office holders, no matter how “corrupt” they are, pray for the good of their State and Country, knowing that wherever they may go, they will return home one day.
Christians, Muslims, pagans and even atheists do the same for no other place can be called home, except for one’s state of origin. It is therefore baffling to be slapped on the face by a piece such as “No Merry Christmas And A Sad New Year For Akwa Ibom State”. Whatever that title even meant is best known to the author – Clement Ikpatt.
The author had written that “at Christmas 2011, Akwa Ibom State was a massive construction site and the fastest growing State economy in sub-Sahara Africa. Akwa Ibomites were generally a happy, self-confident and upward mobile people”. “At Christmas 2019, Akwa Ibom State is a desolate landfill of uncompleted and abandoned projects that has lost its ranking as the nation’s top oil producing State to Delta State. The overwhelming majority of Akwa Ibomites are a grumbling and poverty blighted people”. What facts has he got to prove these? And he went further to add that “Present reality is a gathering storm of doom and gloom that will greet and cover the State in year 2020 unless the disingenuous and flatline government led by Mr. Udom Emmanuel is resuscitated and reoriented”. What a way to criticize a working Governor! Are there no better ways to say “our Governor is not trying”? or has the new media made us lost our sense of respect and reverence for elders and hallowed offices? Can Clement Ikpatt look the Akwa Ibom State Governor in the face and say “you cannot satisfactorily execute your office as the governor”? In case, he is not aware of one project started and completed by the present government, should he not have consulted the Commissioner for Information? Or even go on a vox pop to hear from the people? Has Clement Ikpatt ever been a leader even in his family to understand the responsibilities of a man leading a population of over 5.451 million people comprising characters, philosophies, educational backgrounds, ethnicity, religion and age? Let it be stated clearly that there are no such people as “grumbling and poverty blighted people” in Akwa Ibom. The people of the state are industrious and can afford to eat whether or not the government provides. Afterall, there is no community in this state fed by the government morning, afternoon and night. The government only comes in to aid the people’s efforts. In this context, one could possibly maintain that the tabula rasa, Clement Ikpatt has insulted the sensitivity of the Akwa Ibom people. Majority of Akwa Ibomites are farmers who live on their farm produce. Never in the history of the state has it been reported that a person died of hunger. The high level of communalism in the rural area has never permitted that an Akwa Ibom man would deny his neighbor food when he knows that such is destitute; and no Akwa Ibom man or woman would fold their arms with glee and watch others labour and toil for their daily bread. Let it also be known to Clement that no government under the sun finishes all projects initiated by its administration, except the projects were light weighted.
If this administration elapses before the completion of some projects, it won’t be the first or last. There were unfinished projects in Attah and Akpabio’s regime. What then is the cause for alarm? Here I can pause to advise Clement Ikpatt to go for cross-examinations of his mentality, maybe it has gotten loosed and needs to be fixed. As for the merriness of the Christmas, how many of the over 5.451 million people of Akwa Ibom State did Clement visit to ascertain whether or not they meried? Were there interviews conducted house by house, or vox pops carried out to buttress that there were no celebrations in the State prior to, and after Xmas? Did he go to the Water Fountain at Nwaniba, Plaza, Christmas Village, Itam Junction and other places put up by the government to avail the people a fun filled celebration to catch a glimpse of the aura? He is just an empty vessel constituting nuisance in our State. This uncouth lineament of him is getting out of hand, and I think ignoring him would make him completely loosed. No storm of doom or gloom will greet and cover the State in the year 2020 as posited by Ikpatt unless he personally wishes such for himself and his family.
As a matter of fact, Clement Ikpatt should learn to constructively criticize and not make noise with verbosity like a lunatic. He should also be wary of the implications of speaking ill of a leader. Moreso, one who has been anointed and chosen by God.
He should recall the incident which occurred to the children who mocked Elijah; Miriam, Notham, Korah and Abirah when they grumbled against Moses and the words of what David did to the servant who slew Saul at the battle. Well, with the what he is turning into, I could posit that such has become his fate. Though not physically dead, He’s under an enchantment of curse. We do not do things anymore for our sake but for the sake of posterity and generations unborn.
Criticize the government if you must but, let your criticism be backed with facts and recommendations. After all these have been said, I want to advise the tabula rasa, Clement Ikpatt to leave Akwa Ibom State Government and her people out of the expression of his resentment and frustration. We’re not the reason of his doom, so let him leave us and enjoy his doom alone. Umani Uwemedimo is a Public Affairs Analyst, writes from Abak Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 