Press Release On May 24, 2019, youths of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District who are members of the All progressives Congress, Akwa Ibom state Chapter with the backing of their State Chairman and the entire party leadership, issued a communique wherein they promised to unleash a grand campaign of calumny against the Governor. They indicated their humongous capacity for mischief creation, scenario painting and blackmail roll out- facts that most Akwa Ibom people were already conversant with, because of the calibre of the people who signed the communique. Few days after, the State Chairman of their party held a press conference and almost nearly repeated verbatim, what the youths had earlier posited. Days after the threat, like minded urchins were recruited and tasked with the duty of relaying the unprintable falsehood against the person and office of the Governor,concocted and manufactured by their media think tank. Many of such mercenaries have ceaselessly poured invectives on the person of the Governor, making spurious and unsubstantiated claims. The Governor in the best practice of civility has drawn the attention of security agencies to these persons, seeking protection under the laws of the land. The APC cannot therefore in good conscience accuse the Governor of seeking to muzzle free press or any of such related actions. What the APC does not realize is that there are people whose only wealth is their good name and therefore will be desirous to protect it. The law is abundantly clear that the right of freedom of speech is clearly guarded by the right to the dignity of human person, defamation and other related laws. It was for that purpose that the legal vehicle was created to ensure that a person whose integrity and good name has been maligned can seek redress. Finally, the world is aware that the dirts ceaselessly thrown around the Governor is a part of APC’s grand campaign of calumny targeted at denigrating the person of the Governor, which right thinking members of the society will not believe. Intelligence available to us, further indicates that more of such crude attempts at soiling the Governor’s name are enroute, as the materials are currently being curated at different locations. We can assure that whenever the evil geniuses behind these concoctions eventually release their materials into the public space, we will react firmly and fiercely within the ambit of the law. After all, where the right of one person’s stops, another’s right begins. We urge the general public to completely discountenance the ill conceived claim by the APC, that the Governor is stifling the press.All the Governor has done and will continue to do, is to seek to protect the constitutionally guaranteed right of dignity of human person of Akwa Ibom citizens. Signed: Comrade Ini Ememobong
State Publicity Secretary
Peoples Democratic Party
Akwa Ibom State
05122019 Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 