Over the last four (4) years, the administration of Governor Udom Emmanuel has invested massively in the education sector hence visible improvement witnessed across the state. It’s often believed that the greatest legacy a parent, guardian or  government can give to her people is qualitative education. This, the governor has done with an unreserved strength. The plethora of projects aggressively executed across the length and breadth of the state are clear reflections of Governor Udom Emmanuel’s eagerness and dream to reposition Akwa Ibom, thereby giving it a facelift. The huge intervention in education, especially in redefining free and compulsory education to include payment of termly subventions to primary and secondary schools, payment of WAEC and NAPTEB fees to final year students and indeed taking education in Akwa Ibom State from the earth to the sky. Furthermore, Governor Emmanuel’s giant stride in education has seen him partnering the Federal Government of Nigeria on educational development with result being the siting and construction of military schools in the state.
Most fundamentally, he has deemed it imperative to build and donate educational facilities to the Nigerian Navy for a Naval College in Ikot Ntuen, Oruk Anam and the Nigerian Army at Efa, Etinan Local Government Area. The initiation of modular classroom blocks across the three senatorial districts in the state, provision of sports facilities in schools. The internal Roads of Cornelia Corneli College, a Computer Laboratory and various renovated blocks have been commissioned by him. The timely intervention in the Girls Model Secondary School, Ikot Ekang, Abak, from a near-abandoned federal project which has turned the facility into one of the most equipped schools in the country with a state-of -the-art laboratory and library, modern classrooms, residential quarters for teachers, dormitories, dining hall and teaching aids, among others, are eloquent testimonies of Governor Emmanuel’s passion towards engendering educational renaissance in the state. Whils in oyeje other states where education is seen as a sad state, here in Akwa Ibom State, Governor Emmanuel is building education from the earth to the sky. This is reflective of the huge investment in the exogenous factors of educational development. Through the Inter-Ministerial Direct Labour Committee, dilapidated classroom blocks in state-owned schools have been refurbished. Also, desks and office accommodation for teachers which were in sorry state are being provided and rehabilitated. The Tertiary education is not left out as the Obio Akpa campus of the Akwa Ibom State University, in Oruk Anam have also witnessed the midas touch of the Governor with the provision of a Digital Language Library, a commercial farm palm oil mill, a commercial farm feeds mill, vegetable screen house, Ultra Modern Mass Communication Studios and a magnificent Arts Theater. Even the entire stretch of internal and access roads in the Obio Akpa campus have been constructed complete with side drains. The ultra modern digitalized Administrative Block in Akwa Ibom State University, Ikot Akpadem. The College of Education, Afaha Nsit, Nsit Ibom Local Government is recording a massive face lift, as access road has already been commissioned by Governor Emmanuel and he remains committed to creating a conducive atmosphere for learning by boosting infrastructure in that tertiary institutions by completing the internal road network of the institution. The University of Uyo also got her first Arts Gallery building courtesy of the first family to honour the memory of Late Prince Bernard Sampson Idiong and Professor Stella Idiong, parents of Her Excellency, Mrs Martha Udom Emmanuel. In Akwa Ibom State Polytechnic, Ikot Osurua, Ikot Ekpene, the Governor has invested greatly through the provision of improved welfare packages for staffs, payment of outstanding promotion arrears, promotion of staffs, accreditation of new courses, equipping of laboratories and studios amongst others. Recently the state government held the 1st education summit and exhibit with the view of tackling the decay in the educational sector which have seen illegal schools across the state being shut down while the attitude of lecturers towards teaching improved. To crown it all, the governor through the office of his passion to render support for our people has established a Student’s intervention scheme where Higher Institution students from the State are given financial aide for their school fees when  found wanting. While these and many others are being initiated by the Governor Udom Emmanuel’s led administration, one can only pray that more be done towards improving the standard of learning in Akwa Ibom State. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 