By Endiong John In memory of their late father, the family head of Senator Justice Nsima Akpabio household, Barr. Prince Ukpong Akpabio on Sunday announced that the family will undertake the construction of a brand new bishop’s lodge for Methodist church, Ukana Ikot Ntuen, Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. Barr. Akpabio made the announcement in response to the church’s request for a bishop’s lodge which is to provide shelter for the present and future bishops of the diocese. Sunday was the 20th memorial thanksgiving of Justice Nsima Akpabio and it held at Methodist Church, Ukana Ikot Ntuen, an opportunity the church found to make it’s request. The thanksgiving service which was organised by Nsima Akpabio household attracted the presence of highly placed persons in the society including the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Deacon Udom Emmanuel and wife, Deaconess, Dr Martha Udom Emmanuel. On the occasion, Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State made a donation of the sum of ten million naira as a support for the construction of the bishop’s lodge. Governor Udom Emmanuel made it clear that his donation was on behalf of his family and not made from government’s purse. While leading fundraising from the dignitaries on the occasion to support the Nsima Akpabio household to build a standard lodge for Methodist church, Governor Udom Emmanuel assured that the bishop’s lodge will be ready by easter but directed that the funding of the project should be allowed to be fully undertaken and delivered by Barr. Akpabio. “We will give the funds raised here to Prince Akpabio who is the family head of Nsima Akpabio household. What we owe the church is a bishop’s lodge and we want to commission it by the next time we come here. We want it ready by easter so I appeal to the church to allow Prince to be in charge of the project. The lodge will be built in memory of Justice Nsima Akpabio whom we are celebrating today and we will provide all necessary support”. In his eulogy to Justice Nsima Akpabio, Governor Emmanuel described him as a great statesman who made a bold imprint on all three arms of government having been local government chairman of Essien Udim, Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and an High Court Judge. He thanked the family members of Nsima Akpabio for working hard towards preserving the memories of the departed and for sustaining his legacies while reliving his ideals. Speaking on behalf of his family, Barr. Prince Ukpong Akpabio thanked God for his blessings to the Nsima Akpabio household in the past twenty years. He went down memory lane to recall the circumstances as at the time of the demise of their father and gave appreciation to all who helped the family to stabilise and to grow. Barr. Akpabio noted that the family has not been stagnant in twenty years but has increased by the grace of God and support of friends, associates, mentors and leaders. “My father left behind ten children and his three wives. We lost one of the three wives but two are steal alive. Today we have increased. There are grand children added to the family “. Senator Christopher Ekpenyong, Senator Godswill Akpabio, Mrs Ekaette Unoma Akpabio, Sir Emem Akpabio, Justice Philomena Etim, Obong Michael Afangideh, Mrs Ndifreke Akpabio and Deacon Udom Emmanuel were among those publicly acknowledged and appreciated by the Nsima Akpabio household for their exceptional roles and efforts towards the general growth, welfare and prosperity of the Nsima Akpabio household. The church was also appreciated for it’s spiritual care and support to the family. Senator Christopher Ekpenyong, Speaker of Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Aniekan Bassey, Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, National legal adviser of the PDP, Barr. Emmanuel Enoidem, members of the National Assembly, Commissioners, State House of Assembly members were among several other dignitaries who attended the thanksgiving service. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 