By Umoh-Obong Kingsley The capital city of Akwa Ibom State, Uyo and its environs were on Wednesday engulfed with sounds of trumpets in celebration of the overwhelming Supreme Court victory for Governor Udom Emmanuel. Spotted at strategic positions from the Ibom Plaza, a tourist paradise, sitting in the beautiful and culturally rich Uyo city, to the Ibom Hall Arena, venue for the 2019 Ibom Christmas Carol, Akwa Ibom people gathered singing, dancing and rejoicing, offering praises to God for affirming Governor Emmanuel’s victory once again. The Christmas Village at the Ibom Unity Park, Udo Udoma Avenue, was not left out when the Vice Chairman of Uyo Local Government Area, Hon. Ukai Udeme Emmanuel, led the people to patronize those selling at the place. Governor Emmanuel, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary and Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Ekerete Udoh, extravagantly demonstrated appreciation to God, Akwa Ibom people and the judiciary. He said “Earlier today, the Supreme Court affirmed the overwhelming victory the good people of Akwa Ibom State had given me, during the March 9th gubernatorial elections, thus ending the litigation that started at the Election Tribunal to Appeal Court and ending at the Supreme Court. “Let me again, thank our ONLY GOD, our Supreme God for securing us this Supreme victory, and our people for their prayers and support during the elections and throughout the period of litigations.” The State Governor reiterated his commitment to diligently serve the good people of Akwa Ibom State, saying “The overwhelming mandate you gave me has galvanized and propelled me to continue to serve you with every fibre in me. “We must secure our future today by laying the solid foundation for sustainable growth through the provision of enduring infrastructure, world-class healthcare delivery, education of our children that is tailored to the realities of the 21st Century globalized world, food sufficiency, continuous attraction of Foreign Direct Investments, expansion of our aviation industry, Power for all by 2021, human capacity development across board, tourism sports development etc.” He thanked the Nigerian Judiciary for being the last bastion for the common man by rising to defend democracy once again. Governor Emmanuel however extended hands of fellowship to Akwa Ibom people on the other political divide, calling on them to join hands in building the State together, as the period of politicking and litigations are over, it’s time now for governance. He urged them not to allow the flaming passions of partisan politics affect the cords of unity and love of Akwa Ibom, a piece of God’s own real estate. The Supreme Court unanimously affirmed the election of Governor Udom Emmanuel, dismissing the appeal brought by Mr Nsima Ekere of the All Progressive Congress (APC) for lack of merit. It would be recalled the Court of Appeal sitting Calabar, Cross River State, in November, dismissed the appeal filed by Nsima Ekere challenging the victory of Emmanuel Udom in the 2019 governorship election, and affirmed Udom as governor of the state as ruled by the elections petition tribunal. The Court of Appeal held that the tribunal was right to have dismissed the petition filed by the APC on the basis that no credible evidence was provided against challenging Udom’s victory, and awarded the cost of N500,000 against Nsima Ekere. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 