By Emma Apabio 1. Did you know that Ibom Christmas village has about 250 Kioks constructed and uniformly designed by the Governor Udom Emmanuel’s led administration for citizens and residents? 2. Did you know that there is 24hours free water supply to all kioks and every other person doing business within the village? 3. Did you know that there is 24Hours free power supply to everyone doing business in the Christmas village? 4. Did you know that there is 24Hours free internet Services at the village ? 5. Did you know that Security personnels are always in the village to ensure human and vehicular safety? 6. Did you know that the village is always serene and tranquil because individual are not allowed to bring their generators and music? 7. Did you know that there is a different playground for Children with all playing facilities in place? 8. Did you know that there are flood lights every where around the village to prevent unholy activities? 9. Did you know that there is a world class central stage with professional Performances by domestic and foreign entertainers at different intervals? 10. Did you know that all drinks served at Christmas village are very chill due to constant power supply? 11. Did you know that there are receptacles and dumpsters around the village to control indiscriminate refuse disposal? 12. Do you know that there are mobile toilets strategically placed to present people from urinating indiscriminately? 13. Did you know that you can meet your favorite entertainers and celebrities at Ibom Christmas Village? 14. Did you know that there are secret government agents planted to monitor how food are prepared for general consumption? 15. Did you know that you can also buy cloths and other household utensils at affordable prizes in the village? 16. Did you know that the Christmas village officially opened on December 1, 2019 and will last till January 1, 2020? 17. Did you know that you can buy local and continental meals from Ibom Christmas Village? 18. Did you know that you can get fresh Palm wine and other local drinks at Ibom Xmas Village? 19. Did you know that 2019 Ibom Christmas village is an initiative of the Ministry of Culture and tourism under the leadership of Hon. Orman Esin as the Commissioner? 20. Did you know that unauthorized hawking is not allowed around the Christmas village? Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 