By Umoh Kingsley Akwa Ibom Governor, Mr Udom Emmanuel says the state has reasons to celebrate the 2019 Christmas season, citing, among other reasons, the peace enjoyed in the state. In his speech at the Akwa Ibom Christmas Carol festival 2019 held at the Ibom Hall Arena, Uyo on Friday, the Governor emphatized that the people have every reason to be thankful to God for averting the planned war and insecurity in the state, and engendering the evolution of industries and world class infrastructural amenities. Governor Emmanuel who described  himself as a great example of God’s manifold blessings, love and grace said that one with God is a majority despite the slings and the arrows that were flung, the edges of the arrows went blunt, the slings missed its sight and the machinations of the evil doers came to a crushing disappointment. He said “by this time last year, the atmosphere in this State was pregnant with a lot of manufactured uncertainties, many doomsday scenarios and hair-raising predications made. “The political space was filled with unnecessary tension because a few people had ascribed to themselves the monopoly of God and the repositories of power and might. “Political contest that should be based purely in the capacity to persuade people predicated on a set of ideals and achievements was reduced to the crass level of the invocation of the spectre of violence; and some people had boasted that the State and our people will witness what Adolf Hitler did to the people of Poland during the Second World War.” Governor Emmanuel further stated that new political lexicon was added to the Nigerian political reportage “Warsaw saw War”, and “Some had gone to the shocking level of contracting the merchants of death or those who had assured them of the destructive powers of their “walking sticks) or guns to put it in plain language. “The desire by some of these agents of death was to unleash an orgy of violence in our State and cause our people to stay at home and not to exercise their primary civic responsibly of freely electing their elders.” He however expressed adoration to the #OnlyGod who made the election not only the most peaceful, free and credible, but Akwa Ibom people trooped out, waited patiently in long lines to cast their votes, and thereafter, formed human shield around their votes. Speaking further, the State Executive said “The security agencies that certain individuals had boasted would do their biddings, allowed the will of the people to stand. “The Election Tribunal sitting in Uyo affirmed the expressed and overwhelming will of our people in me to continue leading them as their Servant–Leader. The Appeal Court, sitting in Calabar, also followed suit and again in a unanimous decision, affirmed my victory. Just two days ago, the Supreme Court, also unanimously affirmed my victory.” He expressed gratitude to the Judiciary for helping deepen democracy in the country, describing it as the last bastion for the common man, and extended hands of fellowship to people of the other political divide, calling them to join in building an economically vibrant and resourceful State. Governor Emmanuel explained that political parties are merely vehicles to seek power, and should not be the instrument of separation and disunity, as Akwa Ibom people are one, united in the pursuit of common ideals of peaceful co-existence, love, development and a deep sense of brotherhood. He thanked the good people of Akwa Ibom for the faith they had wholesomely reposed in him on March 9th, by unanimously re-electing him with a wider margin than 2015 to continue to be their  Servant -Leader. The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor E. A. Adeboye, in his Christmas message at the event, noted that God was in Akwa Ibom State, and that he does not go to where God is not found. In his message he said “When God is on the throne, the earth becomes his footstool. When He arises, the enemies scatter When He walks pass, the dead rise. When God visits, doors open and enemies are put to shame. And If He abides, He makes the great to become greater.” Thrilling guests at the event were Vinesong from the United Kingdom, ghana’s Harmonious Chorale, Kunle Ajayi, Joe Praize, Pita, Nathaniel Bassey and scores of indigenous coral groups. Dignitaries who also graced the event include Governor of Abia State, Okezie Ikpeazu; former Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, former governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, among government functionaries in the state. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 