There are indications that Ibom Air may soon start plying the Cameroun – Nigeria route, even as work is being intensified on the international terminal building of the Victor Attah International Airport. Briefing Government House correspondents shortly after the State Executive Council meeting, Secretary to the Akwa Ibom State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, said issues bothering on the socio-economic development of the state topped the agenda of discussions. Ekuwem maintained that “there’s a demand from our neighbouring country, Cameroon, for Cameroonians to be connected directly to Lagos or Abuja instead of flying to Lome(Togo) before connecting a flight to Abuja or Lagos. He revealed that Cameroun to either of Uyo, Abuja or Lagos is perfectly within the approved routes of Ibom Air and that Ibom Air will connect Douala with Abuja, Lagos or Uyo in its flight operations. “As you can see, the International Terminal Building of our airport is coming up very soon; we are going to have our international terminal ready for international flights before  year 2020 runs out,” he added. The executive council meeting also reviewed the year 2019 in retrospect, and according to Dr Ekuwem, among the deliberations, was minimizing truancy in the civil service to enhance productivity. He disclosed that the State Civil Service is to be fully automated using Information And  Communication Technology (ICT) for optimal performance and enhancement of productivity of the workforce. “There will be an increase in the number of road construction, next year, we will have a smart Akwa Ibom State, an intelligent state and this means computerization and ICT based automation of operations within the state civil service. “Today, we took a decision that human resources (HR) and asset management, productivity of staff, performance, assessment, recruitment, employment, growth, retirement, pension and gratuity within the state civil service will be one click away. You know what that means, we will save time”, he explained. The SSG noted that Governor Udom Emmanuel has remained undeterred in the socio-economic development of the state as evident in the massive road infrastructure, inauguration of industries, investment in the power sector which would provide electricity to all by 2021, investment in aviation sector especially, the Ibom Airline, flag-off of the reconstruction of Ibom Blue Sea Science Park, 21 Storey Intelligent Building, and many other projects. Ekuwem hinted that implementation of resolutions reached at the education summit held this year will commence in the coming year. “We are optimistic that by 2020 we will begin the implementation of the short, medium and long term resolutions of the education summit where our schools will be a fantastic and  exciting learning environment to  enable Akwa Ibom people  compete with their counterparts in other climes after leaving school”, he assured. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 