…lays foundation for construction of skills acquisition centre It was all smiles and joy today at 3 Barracks Road Ukanafun as Hon. Unyime Idem, Member representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency and Deputy Chairman, Communications Committee in the House of Representatives, rendered account of his stewardship to his constituents. The event which took place at the Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency Empowerment Centre was a promise Hon. Idem made during the electioneering that within 6 months he will be back to say thank you to the people and presents his score card. ‘Let me thank you all for finding time to be here. Recall that few months ago, I told you on this same ground that when I am elected, I will be back within 6 months to render account of my stewardship. It is in fulfillment of that promise that I am here to brief you of my activities as your representative. By God’s special grace, this will be a routine exercise with the lifespan of my tenure” The Ukanafun Born telecoms guru turned politician went on to present his achievements within the period under review to the consternation of his constituents stating that his stay so far has been rewarding. He told his constituents that he has so far presented three motions, distributed 50,000 free exercise and text books to schools, facilitated the recruitment of 14 constituents into the Nigeria Police and flagged off the empowerment of 5,000 constituents. “You gave me your mandate to go to Abuja and represent you. I have brought some good news. It is the primary duty of a lawmaker to make laws, represent you and do oversight. Within six months of being a lawmaker, I have moved three motions on your behalf. These include the need for government to revamp NIFOR at Oruk Anam, the need for government to Reconstruct the Ikot Ukpong Eren-Ikot Mbong Bridge/road and the need for increased federal presence on federal roads during the yuletide. I donated and distributed 50,000 free exercise and text books to schools across the Federal Constituency. I also facilitated the recruitment of 14 constituents into the Nigeria Police and flagged off the empowerment of 5,000 constituents. In keeping with my promise of raising the next generation of business leaders, we are laying foundation for the construction of 1000 seater capacity skills acquisition centre in both Ukanafun and Oruk Anam. My office has entered into partnership with the Finland government to establish an ICT hub and Institute”
Hon. Unyime Idem also used the opportunity to renew his pledge to the unity and development of Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency. Speaking during the event, the Political Leader of Ukanafun, Rt. Hon. Elder Eno Akpan praised Hon. Idem for representing them well at the National Assembly. Elder Eno Akpan said it was the first time a House of Representatives member will come back home to brief his people and celebrate Christmas with them. While urging the people to keep faith with Hon. Idem, the former House of Representatives Member between 1999 – 2003 urged Hon. Idem to keep the flag flying and ensure that the people are carried along in the scheme of things. Goodwill messages were presented by leaders from both local governments areas. Highlights of the constituency briefing were the foundation laying for construction of a skills acquisition centre and distribution of Christmas packages to constituents. The event was attended by the who is who from Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency. Hon. Idem is Deputy Chairman Communications Committee in the House and Member to several other committees including ICT, NDDC, public procurement, Finance, Works, Banking and Currency, SDGs, petroleum resources, among others. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 