Media practitioners have been told to stand for the truth always and defend what they believe in. This charge was made by Hon. Unyime Idem, Member representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency during an interactive session with Unyimeabasi Media team at his Ewet Housing residence. The Deputy Chairman Communications Committee in the House of Representatives said as Media practitioners and mouth piece of the people, the responsibility lies on the media to inform the people of government activities and programmes. He also said it remains the job of the Media to criticize and advise government where necessary and help bridge the gap between government and the governed. He called for improved synergy between media practitioners and government to ensure that the people are well informed about happenings in the society. While thanking the Unyimeabasi Media Team for standing by him from the onset, he urged members to remain steadfast, committed and join hands with him to make a difference. “Let me sincerely thank the Unyimeabasi Media Team for a job well done. You have been with me from the beginning of this journey. I have enjoyed maximum cooperation and support from you. You have told the world what I am doing as a Federal Lawmaker. If you did not tell them, they might be thinking I am not performing. Thank you for your support. Let me say that the Media being the fourth estate of the realm is a major partner in the development matrix of any nation. It also has a huge responsibility of publicizing what goes on around us whether public or private. It is the media that criticizes and advises government where applicable. It is trite therefore that you strive to defend what you believe in. Always go for the truth and let the people know what we are doing right or wrong. This will help us in decision making process” The telecoms guru turned politician stated that the first 6 months of his being a lawmaker has been eventful with proofs of effective representation. He said he has sponsored three motions, laid foundation for the construction of skills acquisition centres in Ukanafun and Oruk Anam, donated 50,000 free text and exercise books, flagged off the training and empowerment of 5,000 constituents among other. He promised to do more to uplift the living standard of his people and help raise the next generation of leaders in diverse fields of endeavor. Hon. Idem enjoined his media team to close ranks with him in changing governance narratives in Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency. He assured the team that in the book of records of his success story, the Media team occupies a prominent chapter. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 