… Prepare themselves with creative ideas, solutions to improve IGR … As DG PDP Governors’ Forum commends Okowa for organizing South South Police Regional Summit The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governors yesterday challenged states to move away from oil, as buyers may be scarce in the nearest future. The governors said that they are already preparing themselves with creative ideas and solutions to improve Internal Generated Revenue (IGR) so that when the federal government can no longer share as much as it does now, they would still be in a position to fulfill their obligations to the people. Representing the governors at the 2019 IGR Summit for PDP-Governed States, held in Abuja on Wednesday, the Director General of PDP Governors Forum, Earl Osaro Onaiwu said, “As the world begins to move away from Petroleum products, it means we can no longer continue to depend on revenue from crude oil. This is because in the very near future Nigeria may not have buyers for her oil. “This is why it has become critical for states to find creative ways to generate revenue internally. “This is not to be mistaken for a call for more taxes, but rather, a call to begin to think out of the box in preparation for when Abuja cannot share as much as it does now. “Whether money comes from Abuja or not, there will still be a need for the states to build infrastructure, pay workers, provide health care and improve education plus more. “This forward thinking is what led to the decision by the PDP Governors’ Forum to convene this IGR summit to help bring this to the front burner of our state governors and prepare ourselves with creative ideas and solutions to improve IGR so that when enough is not coming from Abuja, the state governments would still be in a position to fulfill their obligations to the people.” Commending the Delta State governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa for hosting the South South Police Regional Summit, Onaiwu said what that mean is that PDP governors believe in peace and not violence, as such has helped the states to develop. He added that Zamfara State in the next two years will be a state to be reckoned with as the governor is working round the clock to ensure that peace reigns supreme for the benefit of the people. The National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus said that state governors should look for alternative ways of generating revenue to address the challenges of food security, infrastructure among others. Represented by the party National Financial Secretary, Abdullahi Maibasira, Secondus said that the IGR summit is the gathering of PDP governors to find a way of expanding their revenue base for the aspiration of their people, noting that the nation has become a poverty headquarters. He said it is essential now to drive up revenue against increasing population and expenditure by government, adding that “we want to ensure that tax collected is used for the actual purpose of service provision and also duly documented.” Secondus said PDP states advocated for peace against violence, which has disenfranchised the people and reduced opportunities. Raising concern about multiple taxation, Secondus stressed the need for transparent tax administration as well as the need to monitor e-commerce businesses. He, however, lamented the violence associated with the Bayelsa and Kogi states governorship elections, adding that what the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared as results were not the true reflection of what transpired. Also speaking, the Deputy Governor of Zamfara State, Mahdi Aliyu Gusau revealed that there is a stabilizing peace, which has helped to generate revenue for the state. He said that unlike in the previous administration where the IGR was about 200 to 300 million, the government of Bello Metawalle has increased the revenue base of the state. He said that there is need for consistency and the adoption of technology in revenue drive, adding that there is also the need to understand each other as a nation. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 