By Umani Uwemedimo Many things have been said of the APC members in Akwa Ibom State, but one thing yet to be revealed is their doctrine of initiation ( membership) into the harebrained confraternity. Just like a confraternity, any member who decides to swear allegiance to the APC must at first sail through certain indoctrinations. In some cult groups, some may consider being flogged, jumping of fire, smoking a certain ration of Indianhelm nationally known as “weed”, sleeping with domestic animals, as well as killing or drinking of blood, or as the case may be, to substantiate his/her readiness to belong. This is to maintain that in the APC Confraternity, there are different procedures for initiation. One of such is that you must pass through a successful surgery where your encephalon becomes retarded or possibly replaced with your anus as a partial fulfilment for your readiness to join the club, APC….. You can help me conclude the statement. Not minding the implications that their actions would cause them and the State in entirety, APC members have strived incessantly to portray their only State as a lawless and unsafe State thereby clamouring for a state of emergency. This is in line with their bid to get rid of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP’s dominance in the State, as well as tumbling the Udom Emmanuel led State government which has caused them more agony than joy. It’s indeed their worst nightmare at the moment. It could be recalled that on January 10th 2019, the Tertiary Institutions Students across the State had mobilized themselves, staging a 20,000 students solidarity match for His Excellency, Gov. Udom Emmanuel’s re-election bid. At the end of the Students solidarity match, APC in the State had mobilized a non-students group to unleash mayhem and actual barbarity on lives and properties along Plaza- Wellington Bassey Way in Uyo. So many people who were running their individual or cooperate businesses along the same street or returning from their day’s activities became victims of circumstance to this ferocious scenario as their mobilities were recklessly destroyed, and other valuables outrightly absconded with by these unidentified mobilized thieves of APC. From intelligent informations that was gathered prior to this barbarous act, APC Chieftains on the eve of the same organized students solidarity match had conceived that if allowed the rally to end successfully, APC would definitely not have a chance at the 2019 general elections in the State and lastly, their next option was to tumble the already existing peace of the State, thereby paving a defined avenue where the State could be declared a state of emergency. In view of these, they assembled themselves as vultures in one of the residential homes at Shelter Afrique, came up with the strategy of tumbling the event, turning it into a Warsaw saw war scenario. Because the above plan was unfruitful, they all amalgamated and sponsored different ghost youth groups to stage serial protests against the governor and the State’s INEC umpire, Barr. Mike Igini. These too also failed but they’ve never retrieved. Barely two weeks ago, I saw in one of the National dailies how the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio was trailed to a meeting where he, alongside other APC Chieftains in the State had adumbrated on series of strategies where the State could be successfully declared a state of emergency by the Federal Government of Nigeria. I didn’t believe the story not untill today that I’ve finally beheld things with my eyes. In the early hours of today, I got a phone call from a friend who intimated me that APC members in Akwa Ibom yesterday had planned to stage a State-wide protest in Uyo where every streets of the State would not be left out. I asked why, he divulged to me that they are combing for every possible means where the government of the State would be toppled, thereby paving an avenue for it to be declared a State of emergency. Few hours after this phone conversation, I saw on social media, updates on the cults invasion of the Nsikak Eduok Avenue, Two lanes in Uyo. According to the informations gathered between 10-1.00pm, it was a cult clash between two Confraternities. I asked, if it’s true that it is a cult clash, how many people so far is dead? I was credibly informed that no one is killed, that members of the cult groups were firing sporadically in the air. I want us to note one thing. I’ve witnessed series of cult wars in Calabar, Abraka and Port Harcourt where I schooled and resided respectively. Those boys called cultists come out for business each time there’s a clash. They can never waste their bullets for no cause. They give direct shots on targeted persons and not in the air. If truly what they did was fire their shots in the air, it means it’s never a cult clash, they’re sponsored. Just as I perceived, few minutes ago I saw some APC media urchins writing on facebook, ” We were used and dumped by the governor after the general elections. We demand Gov. Udom Emmanuel to fulfill his side of the bargain by settling us or we’ll take over the State and make it ungovernable. – Coalition of Cultists in Akwa Ibom State”. Just purse to ask yourself this question, ” why must they always be the first to break a news of this magnitude? At this juncture, I want to state emphatically that the harum sacrums that calls themselves APC members in the State have failed. Using acclaimed cultists to stage a barbaric and illegal protest where properties are destroyed is uncalled for. And again, trying to link the governor with the activities of cultists in the State is highly abominable. Everyone knows that Gov. Udom Emmanuel is a man of God who does not by anyway amalgamates himself with any satanic assemblages or activities. Prior to this, he has fought and still striving effortlessly to proscribe cultism in the State. It’s absolutely saddening to note that the imbecility of the Akwa Ibom APC members has crossed the red lines. Must this always occur when there’s any rumor of election in the State? From a reliable source, Akpabio before departing to Abuja yesterday had convened a meeting somewhere in Uyo. We won’t be bewildered if it’s postulated that the outcome of the Akpabio’s meeting yesterday is the rascality and folly scenario that has played out today in Nsikak Eduok Avenue, Uyo. Elections had long long, everyone involved had moved on with his/her life. If Akpabio is striving for a state of emergency to be declared in Akwa Ibom State to help avert his impending woes at the yet to be fixed National Assembly rerun election in Essien Udim, that’s if only he’ll decide to run. He should know that already, he’s basking in the euphoria of dereliction. If a State of emergency is declared, how happy will their children-children be when they grow to discover that it was caused because of their father’s ego and greed? Akpabio, Akwa Ibom APC, live and let’s live. Umani Uwemedimo is a Public Affairs analyst, writes from Abuja. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 