Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel has dedicated his victory at the Supreme Court to God and the good people of Akwa Ibom State. In a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Ekerete Udoh, the Governor was effusive in praising God, the people of Akwa Ibom State and the Nigerian judiciary. “Earlier today, the Supreme Court affirmed the overwhelming victory the good people of Akwa Ibom State had given me, during the March 9th gubernatorial elections, thus ending the litigations that started at the Election Tribunal to Appeal Court and ending at the Supreme Court. Let me again, thank our ONLY GOD, our Supreme God for securing us this Supreme victory and our people for their prayers and support during the elections and throughout the period of litigations. As I said during my victory speech on March 10th, the overwhelming mandate you gave me has galvanized and propelled me to continue to serve you with every fibre in me. We must secure our future today by laying the solid foundation for sustainable growth through the provision of enduring infrastructure, world-class healthcare delivery, education of our children that is tailored to the realities of the 21st  Century globalized world, food sufficiency, continuous attraction of Foreign Direct Investments, expansion of our aviation industry, Power for all, by 20121, human capacity development across board, tourism sports development etc. To the Nigerian judiciary, you have again risen to defend our democracy and for this, I say thank you for being the last bastion for the common man. Let me again extend my hands of fellowship to my brothers and sisters on the other side of the political divide to come and let us build our dear State together. The period of politicking and litigations are over, it’s time now for governance. Akwa Ibom State is a piece of God’s own real estate; we should not allow the flaming passions of partisan politics affect the cords of our unity and love. God bless our State, God bless our nation and Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year in advance”! Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 