By Abel Udoekene I’ve always considered myself lucky when issues concerning drugs are discussed. As a lightweight who only enjoy few bottles of beers, I haven’t had the pleasure of smoking cigarettes or any other thing that make smokes run through the mouth and the nose simultaneously. I called myself a lightweight, because I’m close to so many smokers, occasionally I sit with them and their smoke flow throw my nose into my brain and I began to feel the pain that run through their mind when they fail to smoke. Last week, I met my high school class mate who is currently working at an Oil Servicing firm in PH. We sat together at a sit-out somewhere in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital and he finished a packet of cigarettes within 45 minutes. “Why the rush?” I asked. He stares at my innocent face and smile for a minute or thereabouts, then requested for another packet of cigarettes. He didn’t answer my question directly but he provided some narratives that inspired this article. “Abel, let me say this, everybody smokes” he began. “But, it depends on what you are smoking, some people smoke cigarettes, some people smoke marijuana, some people smoke cocaine” he paused and light another stick of cigarettes. “The thing is, those things are not dangerous, the most dangerous drugs that I’ve ever come across which most people smoke, drink and even dwell in … is called Ignorance” In summary, I learned a lot during our few moments together. As we discussed, the greatest threat to our success as Individuals, community, State and Nation was freely available in the street. The threat which some of us has chosen to get married to has not only destroyed many home but was slowly destroying the very fabrics that bind our society together. Some people are slaves to it and they will always believe whatever they hear, no matter how you try to persuade them. This drug called Ignorance is a threat to National security, the government must as a matter of urgency must look into it immediately.  Abel Udoekene is a creative writer and a fisherman. He can be reached via email: princeabelekene@gmail.com
Or Phone: 08084188437 Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 