…Opts for Blackmail against PDP and INEC Fresh facts have revealed that the candidate of the All progressive Congress (APC) in the March 9, 2019 Governorship elections in Akwa Ibom State, Mr Nsima Ekere has refused to retrieve some materials from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as ordered by the Governorship Petitions Tribunal in Uyo. Mr Ekere had among other things sought the authority of the Tribunal to get the election materials from the INEC, a prayer which the tribunal wasted no time in granting the former NDDC chairman. In a leaked letter issued to the APC defense Counsel through Barr Victor Iyanam, INEC faulted Mr Ekere’s cold feet towards receiving the said items which include certified true copies of ballot papers, as requested by the petitioner. The letter dated 9th July, 2019, reads in part, “Kindly refer to the meeting with the Management of INEC, Akwa Ibom State on the 11th June, 2019 at where your representative, Barr. Onu S. Achem confirmed receipt from the Commission, of all materials (except CTC of Ballot Papers) ordered to be issued to you by the Election Petition Tribunal sitting in Uyo. “We recall that your representative promised to return for the last item, namely, CTC Ballot papers, after consulting with the Head of your Legal Team on the appropriate date and modalities for taking delivery of the item. “I am directed to remind you that the Commission has since been ready and waiting for you with the item.” The letter which is signed by Emmanuel Eze, furthered that the reminder was imperative in view of the fast approaching deadline for tendering of items at the tribunal, adding that “the Commission is always ready to oblige you timely with all requests ordered by the Tribunal”. Meanwhile an APC top brass following the governorship tribunal confided in our reporter that Mr. Nsima Ekere has tactically eased from providing the funding for effective prosecution of the case. He said this among other things have stalled the photocopy of ballot papers from INEC in the 329 wards across the 3 Senatorial Districts and 10 Federal Constituencies in the 31 Local Government Areas of Akwa Ibom State. Rather than provide funds for the logistic activities, Mr Nsima Ekere has allegedly resorted to sponsoring propaganda against the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Independent National Electoral Commissioner in the State Barr Mike Igini.
The idea, it was gathered is to play the victim in an attempt to curry favour and compensation from the national leadership of the APC and the Presidency.   Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 