By Ewa Okpo I’ve read and watched to my amusement the manifold reactions about a rumored gesture of Sen. Akpabio to donate medical equipments to a cottage hospital in Onna Local Government. Some cheered the rejectors and some jeered the rejectors. To the latter it was politics taken too far. For them it was a good thing for someone sending medical equipment to them whether they had in excess or not. This arguement I must confess is correct but I nevertheless humbly beg to disagree with that cliche of politics taken too far. Politics before now to me had limits, rational limits, to it’s mischievous proclivities. But experience has made me the wiser. Politics can never be taken too far! Who determines the length in the first place? In this country Gen. Obasanjo threatened the whole Nigeria as president that the election of his successor was a “Do or Die” affair. In the end, some did, some died, Yar’adua became president. In this country, President Buhari in a ticket with a pastor asked muslims to vote for muslims and christians to go ahead and vote themselves, he even referred to the death of some nigerians as blood of the babboons; in fact, in all his elections he threatened death tolls and kept his words when he lost, even the presidency he now plays with was gotten at the expense of the unimaginable. In America, there’s nothing Democrats and Republicans didn’t throw at themselves in the election that produced President Trump, it was war! Let’s not even go to Russia and Putin. By the way, have we forgotten about the Akwa Ibom Warsaw Experience? Politics is not a dirty game, it’s the players who choose to play dirty. And experience so far has tought me that people will go any length to achieve political victory and when a politician meets with someone willing to go any lenght to outstage him he should himself go an extra lenght to contend such adversary. That is the Rule. Incidentally, most political wars are smokes of war and nothing more. very expensive jokes. such that if you don’t have the heart for it then you’re not fit for its dividends. Thus, what you fear as politics taken too far may in reality be very far from your fears. Smokescreens! Now to the Greek Gift from Ukana. Anyone following the politics and happenings in Akwa Ibom State well would have appreciated the drama without being unnecessarily nettled. Here are the facts for those who aren’t following.
The ICPC had barely a week ago revealed that certain medical equipments that were meant for a cottage hospital in Ukana, Godswill Akpabio’s own village, as part of his constituency project as senator was diverted to a company traced to Sen. Akpabio himself. Robbing Peter to pay self in deed. And enough bruohaha ensued as the anti corruption body retrieved some returning same to the hospital while searching for the remaining. Truth is, Akpabio is APC, ICPC is not under PDP Government either. Which means, it’s a dog eat dog circus. Proper intra-party witch-hunting. We in the PDP enjoyed the show of shame. Actually, we supplied enough fan for the embers. So in retaliation it was rumured that medical equipments would be donated to the Governor’s Local Government by the Senator who diverted medical equipments meant for his village hospital. Wonderful! The intent was to reciprocate the mockery. “Yes, I diverted medical equipments meant for my village but turn around to donate it to your people.” That’s the joke. In truth that’s the irony of African Philantrophy. They steal secretly from those in need to play generous in public. Remember, this itself should have been politics taken too far by the giver if we’re to go by the taking politics too far paradigm. In reaction, Onna People seeing and understanding the mischief in the gift rose to reject same. Aha, did i hear someone say “politics taken too far” again? The only way to contend an adversary willing to stop at any length is not to stop at all yourself. It takes superior political madness to contain political madness, superior political mischief to counter political mischief. So the people of Onna determined not to be ridiculed, and in solidarity with the Ukana people whose medical equipments were about to be re-diverted mounted the Onna Cottage hospital waiting for the diverters who never showed up. Trust me, that was the last place Akpabio and his people wanted to go. Please don’t bring the issue of emergency patients arisng from no where here because that same crowd would have been the ones to rush the said emergency patient into the hospital and ensure that he/she is attended to by Doctors and Nurses who typically never really take any emergency as emergency in any Nigerian hospital. Now, let’s talk about the rather more interesting play. Politics is a game of interest played with show of skills. Every political event is an opportunity to make political currencies. So for those who may not have discerned, it was an opportunity for the people and politicians of Onna to show their political skills. It was time for someone to prove his capacity to mobilize supporters even after election, it was an opportunity for someone to prove that he was on ground, it was an opportunity for somebody to prove to the Governor that his people will not let anyone ridicule him or use them to fight him, it was time for someone to show that he still had money to work for the governor and very importantly, it was time for some people to make some quick political coins called in our local political parlance “pickings”. So while you see people foolishly rejecting hospital equipment donated to them by a big man thereby taking politics too far know now therefore that your political sights are faulty, see a political doctor. Political shortsightedness is one of the worse ailment in this country. And for the records, with what the APC put us through in the just concluded elections nothing will ever happen again for some of us to think that it is politics taken too far because those guys took us to the end of the world and it was not politics taken too far for them. Truth is, everything we do in politics is politics taken too far in the sight of another person or the receiver. We only think it’s politics taken too far when we’re the ones suffering it or watching from sideline. So expect the unthinkable as far as politics is concerned, that’s how it is here and abroad! By the way, who even told you that Akpabio was bringing medical equipments to Onna? The whole this could have just been a play scripted by an even more mischievous maverick for some political opportunities and scores. And we’re here overreacting. Pint is, never take anything too serious in politics. It could just be another political play on our collective intelligence So I hope with this few points of mine I have been able to convince you that politics can never be taken too far, the tape is endless. By the way Comrade Ini Ememobong thank you very much for that book you bought all the way from London Business School for me. Thw reason why you’ve not been seeing me recently is because i’ve been reading it. You know as the title goes “The Secret Barrister” I have to read it secretly. But thank you publicly. God bless you Technically and otherwise!!! Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 