By Endiong John There are probably other prophets today, but I’ve come to play the part of the last prophet of the old testament. His name, John the Baptist. His part was to introduce and herald the coming of the Saviour of all of humanity, our lord Jesus Christ. Matthew 11:11 says of all prophets and of all mortals, John was the greatest. I assume my part with Uwemedimo Nwoko. It’s my place to let you know who is about to be sworn-in most likely to continue as Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General of Akwa Ibom State on Thursday. That’s the part of the old testament’s last prophet.It has become my part right now. Uwemedimo Nwoko is a thoroughly bred and schooled man. His parents, Thomas Nwoko and Eno Nwoko were his first School. Thomas Nwoko was not just Uwemedimo Nwoko’s first school, he was also his first prophet. He had rightly prophesied that Uwemedimo Nwoko will be his first lawyer. The man who is currently resting in peace has three lawyers, but Uwemedimo Nwoko was his first. Conventionally, Uwemedimo Nwoko first went to Primary School, Ikot Osukpong, Ika. His Secondary School was at St. Augustine’s Secondary School, Urua Inyang, Ika Local Government Area, Akwa Ibom State. His University Education was at University of Calabar. He obtained an LL.M(Masters) from Lagos State University. All of these institutions are public schools. It’s an attestation that it doesn’t matter where we all begin. Uwemedimo Nwoko has been Principal Partner of Nwoko &Co. since 1993. He lectured in University of Abuja in 1995. He was Vice Chairman of Committee on Law and Individual Rights Section on Legal Practice, Nigerian Bar Association, Chairman, Governing Council of Akwa Ibom State Polytechnic, Ikot Osurua between 2013 – 2015 and Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General, Akwa Ibom State between January, 2015 – May 2019. The learned gentleman while in Private Practice did consultancy services for First City Monument Bank PLC, Ikpe Annang Micro Finance Bank Nigeria Limited, Elmats Petroleum Limited, Joe Frank Oil Service Limited, Monty Suites Limited, Ubotex Nigeria Limited, Henoutex International Limited, Bunmi-Ad Faluji Construction Limited, Sensor Newspapers Limited, Akwa Ibom Property and Investment Company Limited (APICO), Crown Environmental Consultants Limited, Miden Systems Limited, Lan-Tech Business Systems Limited, Wemabod Estates Limited, Quorum Integrated Investments Limited , Ika Local Government, Ukanafun Local Government, University of Uyo Alumni Association, etc. As a Barrister and Solicitor of the Supreme, Uwemedimo Nwoko has made more than three thousand Court appearances across the Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, Federal High Courts, State High Courts, etc. Nwoko has won more cases than he has lost in all of these courts including very top cases of public importance such as Michael Kaase Aondoakaa VS Hon. Emmanuel Obot & Ors and Air Marshal Nsikak Eduok (Rtd) Vs Uwemedimo Nwoko. Michael Aondoakaa was Minister for Justice and Attorney General under Umaru Musa Yar’adua while Air Marshal Nsikak Eduok needs no introduction. I don’t know how I can continue without boring you. Nwoko’s pages are too numerous. It’s an evidence of fulfilling and glorious years in Practice as Lawyer. Nwoko is not tired of practice and may never be. He has made more Appearances in court than any other Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General in Akwa Ibom State. Nwoko is the longest serving Commissioner for Justice in Akwa Ibom State. Nwoko is probably returning as Commissioner for Justice and Attorney General on Thursday. He has said his third coming will be for a gain for social justice. Deacon Udom Emmanuel has been kind to the people of Akwa Ibom State for returning this highly profiled gentleman in his cabinet. Nwoko’s return is victory for Akwa Ibom State. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 