The Director General of Center for Credible Leadership and Citizens Awareness, Dr. Nwamu Gabriel, has described how he alongside some foreign and other domestic observers, were violently attacked by hoodlums in the presence of the Police and Army officials at Senator Godswill Akpabio’s polling unit, The Independent High School, Ukana West in Essien Udim local government area. Dr Gabriel who was subpoenaed to testify as Senator Chris Ekpenyong’s thirteenth Witness DW13 at the national assembly elections petitions tribunal, said he was pained because most of those attacked at the former Senator’s unit during the Presidential and National Assembly Polls by the hoodlums, where foreigners and women. Explaining that his non-governmental organization (NGO) was duly accredited by INEC through a letter dated 28/01/2019, to observe the 2019 general elections, Gabriel told the Tribunal that he visited about five polling units before arriving Independent High School, Ukana West 2, Essien Udim. He explained that Senator Akpabio’s unit was blocked at the entrance of polling center, and that from where he stood, he saw INEC Staff forced to do things that were not in accordance with INEC rules under the supervision of Senator Akpabio and his security men. He said he was astonished that in the presence of the Nigerian Army and Police Officers at the Collation Center, he and others were beaten black and blue by thugs. His report to INEC Chairman on the 2019 General Election was tendered in evidence by M. D. Gwaison, Counsel to the PDP. He said there were no elections in Senator Godswill Akpabio’s unit as well as the five polling units he visited in Essien Udim Local Government Area during the Presidential and National Assembly Polls in the country. Meanwhile, Senator Akpabio did not spend up to 3 minutes in court as he left in a rather unceremonious manner. The petitioner entered while Nwamu Gabriel was telling the Tribunal he saw Senator Akpabio inside the Collation hall, where they as observers were molested and attacked by his hoodlums from gaining access.
Akpabio who barely warmed his seat made an exit and never returned till the tribunal was rose. Earlier a mild drama occurred when the Dr Gabriel was docked as Sunday Ameh SAN, Counsel to Chief Godswill Akpabio complained that he was served with the witness deposition few minutes before sitting and prayed the Tribunal to stand down for one hour to enable him read the depositions and prepare for Cross Examination. Uche Njoku, Counsel to Senator Chris Ekpenyong regretted the late service of depositions on his colleague, Ameh, stating that the depositions were filed the previous day. The Tribunal had to stand down for one hour, instructing Ameh to notify the three-man panel when he’s done reading the depositions.
The National Assembly Tribunal has adjourned till Saturday, July 20, 2019. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 