….Dr Peter Obi to deliver keynote speech By Nelson NseAbasi The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Governors Forum said it is pertinent to postpone the planned 2019 Edition of its annual IGR Summit in Abuja, to enable the party focus on gubernatorial elections in Kogi and Bayelsa. In a statement released Tuesday by the Summit Organizing Committee and signed by Earl Osaro Onaiwu, DG of the Forum; the Summit which was earlier programmed for Wednesday/Thursday, Oct. 30-31, 2019 at the BON Hotel Stratton, (formerly Protea Hotel), Asokoro, Abuja; has been rescheduled to hold on Wednesday/Thursday, November 27-28, 2019 at the same venues. The rescheduling according to the release is due to the fact that the organizers do not want any conflict of interest arising from the two major elections coming up in Kogi and Bayelsa States. Titled “The Imperatives of Developing Internally-Generated Revenue Options for State Governments in a Recessed Economy”, the summit which is facilitated by the PDP Governors Forum and managed by Messrs Red Sapphire Nigeria Limited, an integrated marketing communications company that provides Public Relations, Event Management & Marketing, and Advertising Services, in conjunction with the Producers of high-profile Finance programme, “Money Line on AIT”, will feature the Finance expert, Nancy Iloh as Summit Anchor. The Summit will feature Key Resource persons and Finance Experts with tested knowledge and transfer experience drawn from the IGR/Finance Sector. They will deliver thought–provoking papers and case studies to address as well as proffer enduring and sustainable solutions; aside crafting fresh ideas for the development, generation and effective application of digital formats to improve internally-generated revenue (IGR) strategies and platforms in the states and local government areas (LGAs) in a Recessed Economy. The expected participants are – State Commissioners of Finance, Trade/Investments, Budget/Economic Planning, Tourism and Local Governments/Chieftaincy Affairs; National/State Assembly Committee Chairmen on Local Governments whose input will generally provide statutory and parliamentary backing for the major determinants and considerations on IGR Resources; SSAs on Trade/Investments, Economy, Finance and Revenue Generation; LGA Chairmen/ Secretaries, as well as Heads of State Boards of Internally-Generated Revenue and Senior Executives engaged in the Development and Management of Rural Economy amongst others. The high-profile summit will feature the Governor of Bayelsa State and Chairman of PDP Governors Forum, Hon. Henry Seriake Dickson as the Chief Host of the summit, and the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus as the Special Guest of Honour. The former Governor of Anambra State and 2019 Vice Presidential candidate of the PDP, Dr. Peter Obi, the Chairman of the Summit, will also deliver the keynote address on the theme “The Imperatives of Developing Internally-Generated Revenue Options for State Governments in a Recessed Economy”. Mr. Akinyele Oladeji, an IGR Expert and Managing Consultant/Country Representative of Canadian Software Development Corporation (CSDC Consulting Nigeria) will lead a coterie of frontline speakers, session chairmen, faculty members and renowned IGR/Finance Experts cum Consultants drawn from allied and related agencies. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 