By Prince Brown Owoh It was Abraham Lincoln, America’s 16th President, who said in his letter to his son’s teacher that all men are not just, all men are not true but that in every scoundrel there is a hero and for every crooked politician, there is a dedicated leader. Today, this comrade seems to be the characterization of Lincoln’s belief. In a hostile political hemisphere such as Nigeria where it’s a commonplace that all politicians are crooked, Ini Ememobong has defiled the odds, proven hypotheses wrong and set a new kind of political agenda that if emulated irrespective of political affiliations have the potential of setting our polity on the road to renewal of our minds, faith and belief towards politics. Many have called you “hypocrite” and termed your humanitarian services “hypocrisy”. I am not one of them. If a man with no political portfolio in the mainstream of government can bring your children back to schools, make readily available succour to those with different kinds of medical needs, put in place grants and scholarships to help undergraduates, law students and the likes achieve their dreams then, such a hypocrite is a different kind of hypocrite. If a hypocrite masterminded a platform, the PDP Umbrella Business, I hope I got the name right, that has seen young entrepreneurs spring up in the state and now live their dream hence reducing poverty and hardship then, such a hypocrite must be celebrated. If a hypocrite knows enough that dignified life to everyone is a right and not a privilege and works harder to ensure that, for everyone he could reach deserves that life then, our families, communities, states and Nigeria need such hypocrites. A hypocrite who believes every Workman is entitled to his wages and incentives to help him/her coordinate his or her own life deserves a place of honour in our society. If a hypocrite acquires and allocates lands to people he could have ordinary and basically ignore then, this hypocrite is a wonder to behold. I do not know if those who christened you hypocrite knows the  meaning. A man believes in the dignity of life and expresses it in his humanitarian services and you call that hypocrisy? A man’s action is usually and always subjected to appraisal, criticism and evaluation but when these parameters are not objectively applied or lacks objectivity it becomes worrisome and appalling and invokes blasphemy. I will not betray my good conscience and call good evil because I do not support PDP at the moment or allow political subjectivity to take away my discerning mind. Not only will posterity be disappointed in me but dissatisfied. I have had children who were not born in 1999 when I became a registered PDP member and started mobilising and voting PDP called me names just because I took a personal decision at a dying minute not to support PDP because I felt my people were short changed by PDP. My general belief and philosophy are not hinged on political party but on the integrity of mankind. In other words, I do not work for political parties but I work for individuals whom I believe would salvage our ugly situation if given the chance. Nothing on earth would make me not to support Ini Ememobong if he chooses to run for an office or if he presents someone whom I know would get the job done irrespective of the political party. As a matter of fact, I will do so even as an independent candidate.The same I will do for Godswill Akpabio any time any day because they have proven that they are good men. So make no mistakes, I am not in any way gratifying Ini Ememobong for what he hasn’t deserved. If he is 36 then I think am 3 years older than him and see no reason why I shouldn’t tell him the truth. Do not mistake this article as a medium for favours. The fact is that, I don’t like seeking for favours, I rarely do that. The first thing I did when I turned a man was to empower myself so that no one creates an atmosphere of servitude around me. To live this life will require faith, love and courage, Lincoln said. Ini Ememobong has exemplified that. He is a good man. President Obama said the greatest eulogy or encomium on a man is to hear that he is or was a good man and that I stand too. Ini Ememobong I love what you’re doing. I pray for your continued blessings always in Jesus dear name, Amen. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 