The biblical statement that “When the righteous is on the throne,the people rejoice” was demonstrated today in Oron Local Government Area as the President General of Oro Union,Chief(Mrs)Janet Amba in collaboration with her Foundation,The Unique Icon Builders Foundation(UNIB) marked her 50th birthday with the physically challenged persons in Oro nation. Mrs Amba who turned 50years on the 23rd of September was on official assignment out of the country and could not celebrate her birthday but on her return gathered the physically challenged persons in the area to fete and merry with them. The First female President of Oro Union   in her speech appreciated God for the gift of life and his grace.She assured the physically challenged persons of her continuous support to ensure they are well taken care of. In her words,”I am giving out wheel chairs and crutches to some physically challenged persons across the Five Local Government Areas of Oro nation to support the group,i will continue to do my best to ensure you all are well taken care of”. She maintained that the gesture is in partnership with her foundation,The Unique Icon Builders Foundation (UNIB) to support the physically challenged persons across the world but had to begin from home which is the reason she called for them in Oro nation. The beneficiaries drawn from the Five Local Government Areas of  Oro nation while receiving their gifts thanked the celebrant and prayed for God to continue blessing her for her good works and for always supporting the vulnerable in the society. “I wish to thank our mother and President General for her kind gesture to us, She is a good mother and I pray for God to bless and reward her abundantly” Mr Edet Edet,one of the recipients of the Wheel Chair from Oron LGA said. Mr Kingsley Daniel and others also prayed for Chief Amba and appreciated her for the magnanimity showed on them. Several Guests who spoke at the event applauded the President General for her superlative leadership in the union and wished her a Happy 50th birthday and many more years of God’s faithfulness upon her life. Chief (Mrs) Janet Amba,the mother of six and one grand child was emotional when the physically challenged persons spoke in appreciation for her kindness. The event had in attendance Traditional Rulers,Chapter Heads of Oro Union,Oro Union Youth Wing Leadership,Youth Leaders,Opinion Leaders, Leadership of The Physically Challenged Persons in Oro Nation amongst various others.Highpoint of the event was presentation of the wheel chairs and crutches to the beneficiaries. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 