By Abel Udoekene Two things prompted this write-up; the artificial rain concerned allegedly raised by the Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Work, Mr. Ephraim Inyang-eyen, secondly, the unending messages of insult that keep starring at my face every day. Please permit me to take you to China, according to quartz in 2150 BC, China was faced with a torrential rainfall that was unfavorable for crop planting and China’s development, in response to this, Chiness Emperor, Yu created a technology that controlled the Yellow rain annual flood, thus saving waterlogged crops and accelerating China’s development. In the early 2000, China face the opposite; water scarcity that threatens farms and development in China, Chiness President brought together a team of scientist; these scientist used cloud-seeding technology by launching chemicals into the cloud, thus accelerating the creation of ice crystals  that eventually becomes rain. It is estimated that China spent at least $150 million on a single regional artificial rain program, while the US spends around $15 million to creates 50 billion tonnes (55 billion tons) of artificial rain a year. Let me take you to Lagos State, Yesterday, my brother drove me to meet a friend at Ikorodu, Lagos State, if you pass through Ajegunle (along Ikorodu road) to Mile 12, you will noticed that the whole area is flooded. I was told by a resident of the area that the flood has been there for months due to constant rainfall orchestrated by climate change. “Climate change?” I wanted to engage him a little but time was not on our side, since we were very scared of the almighty Lagos traffic. Coming back home, someone drew my attention to a very careless statement allegedly made by a very respectable man. I have read series of opinions either against or in support of the careless statement. Personally, I shed tears when I see sane individual coming out to defend a careless statement that seems to generalize a whole generation of people as Kidnappers. Are we really this daft? where is our common sense? Few hours ago, I saw a story written by a young man i admired so much titled “Stop the Kidnapping, Akwa Ibom State Government warns Oruk Anam youths” Even though, he has taken down the post after I spoke with him, it’s unthinkable what is gradually happening to our generation On the issue of artificial rain making, i think if it is true that we have a cloud seeding technology in Oruk Anam that can control rainfall, the government should take advantage of it. $150 million from the Chiness government can create up to 100,000 jobs for our teeming youths. Democracy is a government of the people and the people will always ask  for more. Happy Weekend Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 