The member representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Hon. Unyime Idem has applauded the move by a French Cyber Security Company, Shelt Global to partner with the proposed Finnish ICT Hub and Institute in Akwa Ibom State to raise awareness against cybercrime. Receiving a team from the company in his office in Abuja led by its Managing Director, Youssef Abillama, Hon. Idem who commended the company for its interest in fighting cyber crime, added that the activities of cyber criminals had assumed a high dimension, and that all hands must be on the deck to check the menace. He said their partnership with the proposed Finnish ICT Hub and Institute in Akwa Ibom State will not only assist in developing young innovators to contribute their quota to the socio economic transformation of the state driven by ICT but will also help government redeem the image of the country saddled with an infamous reputation for online fraud. The House Committee member on ICT and Deputy Chairman House Committee on Communications pledged his support to the fight against cyber crime and the realization of the ICT Hub which he agreed to partner with the Finnish government through the Ambassador of Finland in Nigeria, Dr Jyrki Pulkkinen to establish in Akwa Ibom State. Earlier in his address, the Managing Director of Shelt Global, Youssef Abillama said the company was moved to partner with the ICT Hub following the dangers posed by cyber crime to global economy and thanked Hon. Idem and the Finnish government for the initiative to establish a world class ICT Hub in Akwa Ibom. According to him, Shelt Global is a reputable multi-national cyber security company in operation in many countries of the world including Nigeria which helps government and organizations fight cyber crime and also involve in raising awareness of the dangers posed by cybercriminal activities. He was accompanied by the Business Support Manager, Souheir Fakhreddine and Business Development Manager, Walid Bou Abssi. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 