By Umani Uwemedimo Yesterday I pondered upon some ill scripted strictures by some tabula rasas who accordingly, have sold themselves and their mental faculties to the broom Confraternity in a bid to amass infinitesimal financial placate from their paymasters. The fons et oligo of their incessant disjointed inconsequential strictures against the person of the Akwa Ibom State PDP Publicity Secretary, Comr. Ini Ememobong is as a result of their long lasting abhorrence and invidiousness against his person. But what is his crime? Their recent katzenjammer  is believed to emanate from Ini Ememobong’s benevolence to one little Miss. Enobong barely a year and a month ago. From the pictures attached to this piece, one would intelligibly ascertain the possible cause of actions prior to this particular subject. Because Ini Ememobong’s benevolence speaks unsurpassed volume, and because the young intelligentsia cum media expert has devoted his life to humanitarianism, he stumbled upon a pretty little girl two days before his 35th birthday ago, 5th November 2018. This pretty little angel had lost hope for a meliorate future. The humanitarian who decried the girl’s unpropitious and impecunious conditions: her inability to walk due to her forebear’s financial incapability to purchase either clutches, wheelchair or limbs for their ward, immediately extended his hand of fellowship to the poor little angel. Not just that a brand new customized wheelchair was given to the girl by this media guru, a new set of limb imported from London was given to the girl thereafter which automatically stipulates her ability to walk without the customized wheelchair. The limb was this year replaced by a new set still courtesy of this crucified Ini Ememobong and believably, this will be the cycle till Christ comes. What manner of a man is Ini Ememobong? He did not only stopped at providing the girl’s prosthetics, he progressed to awarding little Miss. Enobong with a lifetime scholarship program. This has not only eased her family’s burden, but has gone a long way in restoring the girl’s lost confidence and hope for a meliorate future. Today was not meant for a long speech, but permit me to state here that the case of little Miss. Enobong is one out of  thousands cases. Imaobong, a 23year old hair stylist, grew up in Jos, Nigeria and returned home in 2013 with high hopes of furthering an education in Nursing.
2016, She was involved in a fatal accident and there she lost a limb. An above-knee amputation was carried out on her. She was hopitalised for several months. When recovered, Imaobong’s Parents were only able to afford a pair of crouches and these served much till she became a beneficiary of Ini Ememobong’s benevolence. There are still thousands of other cases. The harum sacrums even after being fully informed of these benevolence, are on a bid to discredit the philanthropic gesture of Ini Ememobong before the people. Their display of preposterousness is as a result of the actions to justify their monthly financial endowment by their paymasters. Also, it’s emanating from their malignancy and enviousness against Ini Ememobong. But they should be able to understand that Ini Ememobong is not the reason why some of them were smuggled out of Texas at night because of their incessant violating-violations of human rights in America. They should also know that Ini is not the reason why some of them have outrightly turned to vagabonds and social media maggots due to their inability to attract political appointment or financial benefits from the State Government. For them to believe Ini Ememobong had scammed little Enobong with wood-made clutches denotes their level of mental derangement. The other rumormonger who purportedly  claimed of awarding scholarship and clutches to the little girl is nothing but a psychopath suffering from intense amnesia. How can you offer scholarship and clutches to someone whose identity, school and parenthood is yet to be known by you? His antics have outrightly been known by all even before now. Ini Ememobong remains in his honor and till eternity, none of their purported achievements would be able to equate his achievements. Umani Uwemedimo writes this piece from Abak, Akwa Ibom State Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 