By Jerry Johnny The Publicity Secretariat of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Akwa Ibom State paid an unscheduled visit to St Phillips Primary School, Obio/Mbiakpan in Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area of the state with Educational materials as part of their Educational Promotion and life touching activities in Akwa Ibom State.   Presenting the materials, Mrs Uyai Edidiong Francis, the Chairperson, Education Subcommittee of the Ini Ememobong Foundation who also doubles as the Acting Publicity Secretary of the party for the week, told the children and the management of the school that the gesture was a way of encouraging the staff and children of the school. While urging the staff and children of the school to keep praying for the government and it’s officials for more good things to come in, he advised the children to be attentive and obedient to their teachers. She also announced that the Wife of the State Publicity Secretary of PDP, Bar. (Mrs) Sandra Ini Ememobong has picked selected pupils of the school for more packages including footwears; clothes and more. Mrs Ememobong, who was also in the team encouraged the children never to look down on themselves; should study hard and should also invest all their interest and time in their studies, too. She promised to come back on a surprise visit to the school. Reacting to the kind gesture, the Head Teacher of the school, Mrs Grace Udoh thanked members of the team; especially the Publicity Secretary of the party, Comr. Ini Ememobong for his magnanimity and prayed for God’s continuous blessings on him and his teams members. It could be recalled that not long ago, the Publicity Secretary of the party, Comr. Ini Ememobong had visited the school where he showered the pupils with Educational materials including footwears and clothes. He also gave retirement packages to the staff of the school that were retiring then and also presented Christmas packages to all the staff of the school. The team was accompanied by the Ibiono Ibom Council Secretary, Hon. (Deaconess) Mandu Esoh; Ibiono Ward 10 Councilor, Hon. Mandu Eduese; the former transition Chairman of Ibiono Ibom Council, Rt. Hon. Samuel Ekah and the Mbiakpan Village Council Secretary, Mr Joseph Ebu. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 