...as Patrons, coordinators, Ors, get rewards by Emma Akpabio In what could best be described as dividends of selfless services, dedication and commitment, grassroots coordinators of Divine Ibom Movement (DIV), a foremost socio political group in Akwa Ibom State were rewarded with cash and other gift items for supporting the People’s Democratic Party at the last general elections. The Victory party which was organized by the leadership of the renowned political group, took place on Sunday, October 20, 2019 at Eseme Essien event Centre, Uyo, with top government functionaries, professionals, philanthropists, patrons of the group and grassroots coordinators from the 31 local government areas of the State in attendance. Special features of the party were; praise and worship, words of exhortation/ thankfulness to God, rendition of victory songs by DIV women, special victory dance, comedy, goodwill messages and presentation of gifts items to patrons of the group. Everyone in attendance had good food and drinks of their choices. In their goodwill messages, the Secretary to the State Government- Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem, Akwa Ibom State ALGON Chairman – Hon. Frank Archibong, Commissioner, Ministry of Economic Development & Ibom Deep Sea Port – Mr Akan Okon, Finance Commisioner – Mr. Linus Nkan, MD/CEO of Hensek Construction Company- Engr. Uwem Okoko, Commisioner 1, Civil service commission – Rt Hon Aniekan Akpan, SSA on Youth Matters, Mr Aniefiok Iwaudofia, applauded the leadership of Divine Ibom Movement for being a political group with a difference. For gathering her members back after the elections, they described the group as one that places priority on the welfare of the members while promising to always support the group when ever needs arise. Earlier, the founder of the group, Mrs. Idongesit Etiebet, returned thanks to God for his love and grace, especially for prayers answered. The erstwhile bank deputy general manager also expressed gratitude to Governor Emmanuel for the opportunity given to her to render services to her people. While eulogizing the wife of the Governor- Mrs Martha Emmanuel whom she described as her inspiration, Etiebet applauded government officials who attended the event and prayed God to reward them for their usual solidarity and support. The Progenitor of the DIV while describing the success of DIV throughout the campaigns as collective, expressed special appreciation to all patrons, especially General J. P Isang, Rtd. and wife – Surveyor General Emem Isang, Mr Tony Phillips, Hon. Akan Okon, Engr Okoko, Mrs Akan Okon, Dr Nathaniel Adiakpan, Mr Annie Thomas and many others. She also presented award to foundation members of the group. Those who were Hon. Unwana Iwok, Hon. Catherine Asian, amongst others. The Governors Aide on Education Monitoring prayed God to bless and reward all supporters of the group. On his part, the State Coordinator of DIV, Dr Uduot Iwok congratulated all coordinators of the group for being true and faithful ambassadors. He commended all members of the group for all their contributions to the reelection of Governor Emmanuel and all candidates of the People’s Democratic Party. Stressing that DIV is a movement, the communication expert who assured all members of greater dividends in the future also expressed confidence in the leadership of Governor Emmanuel. On behalf of all members of Divine Ibom Movemment, the State Coordinator promised to always be supportive to the government till 2023 and beyond.      Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 