…as World marks International Day of the Girl-Child As the world marks the 2019 International Day of the Girl Child today, the Deputy Chairman House Committee on Communications and member representing Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Hon. Unyime Idem has promised to lobby his colleagues in the Green Chambers to strengthen existing laws on Girl Child Protection and Education. Hon. Idem who is also a member of the House Committee on ICT spoke as a special guest at an event organized by the Finland Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Iyrki Pulkkinen to mark the International Day of the Girl Child with the theme “Networking reception for Girls and Women’s Empowerment in ICT and Entrepreneurship.” He said there was a need for the executive and the judiciary to close ranks and ensure that the Child Rights Act is implemented all over the country, and child abuse, especially rape is visited with severe punishment, adding that access to quality education as well as healthcare nationwide will also help to meliorate the plight of the girl child in Nigeria. The lawmaker who recently distributed fifty thousand (50, 000) exercise books and text books to school pupils in Ukanafun and Oruk Anam local government areas urged government, organizations and private individuals to invest in the future of the Girl-child and take their education seriously for a better future. On his part, Finland Ambassador Pulkkinen, thanked She Forum Africa, a non-profit organization for partnering with the Embassy to raise awareness on the role of the Girl-child in the society. He said the day was meant to promote girl’s human rights, highlight gender inequalities and other challenges militating the female gender globally. While advising against religious misinterpretations, early marriages and other factors hindering the girl-child in Nigeria, Pulkkinen promised the support of the Finnish government to Nigeria to protect and enhance the value of the girl-child. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 