By Emma Akpabio Following the recent innovation of creating wealth from waste through recycling which has come to be appreciated in advanced societies as the mainstay of income generation and  wealth creation, the Akwa Ibom State Environmental Protection and waste Management Agency (AKSEPWMA) has concluded plans to follow trends, as she holds her maiden Stakeholders’ dialogue in the State.  The Chairman of the Agency, Hon. Prince Ikim, Monday, disclosed this in Uyo, shortly after a meeting with all the Board members. According to Ikim, the event which is slated for Wednesday, October 30, 2019, at Ibom Hall, IBB avenue, Uyo, with the theme “Refuse to Riches”, is in tadem with the State government’s innovative effort to better the lives of the populace through employment generation for the masses.     Speaking further, the Waste Management Boss said “Waste in the 21st century is wealth but takes technicalities in the conversion process, of which reason the dialogue is held”. “Over the years, waste collection from households and businesses and its transportation to designated dump sites have always been delivered by the Agency through appointed contractors, which has, alas, not always seen the light of the day. Citizens and residents of our dear State in most cases, often dump their waste in landfills and scavengers who move around, pick whatever they can for resale, thereby smothering the revenue yielding potentials of over 1,500 tons of waste generated in our state per day”. He added that “such unsolicited, unfortunate scenario also forms the primary essence for the dialogue, where different stakeholders will contribute their quota towards having a good waste management system in line with International best practices” . Ikim, again, stressed that the work of keeping environment clean belongs to everyone. He called on the residents and citizens of the State to always maintain a healthy environment. While Warning against indiscriminate refuse disposal, trading at prohibited areas and littering the Streets, the former Council Boss of Oruk Anam emphasized that any offender of environmental laws will be prosecuted without fear or favour. Pundits expected in attendance include top government functionaries at all levels, Internal Revenue Service, policy/Law makers, the Judiciary, Independent Oil Companies operating in the State, manufacturing companies, Professional bodies, bankers’ committee, Traders, Labour union, amongst other groups, associations and organizations. Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 