Agency Report Less than 20 per cent of Nigerians are registered in the National Identity Database of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), an official has said. This is despite the registration and collection of the ID cards being free, Hadiza Dagabana, the Acting Director-General of NIMC said in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria. Established by the NIMC Act No. 23 of 2007, the agency, according to its website, has the mandate to “establish, own, operate, maintain and manage the National Identity Database in Nigeria, register persons covered by the Act, assign a Unique National Identification Number (NIN) and issue General Multi-Purpose Cards (GMPC) to those who are citizens of Nigeria as well as others legally residing within the country.” Since its establishment, however, and despite several years of trying to convince Nigerians to register, only over 37 million Nigerians of the estimated 200 million population are registered, Mrs Dagabana said. This number of registered is less than half the 84 million who registered for the 2019 general elections. This is despite that unlike the voter registration, the NIMC registration is not restricted to people 18 years and above. Uncollected ID cards
Mrs Dagabana also said that of those who have registered, over 700,000 are yet to collect their National e-ID cards. She urged all concerned applicants, who are yet to collect their cards, to request for their Identity card nationwide, or request for its transfer if they have moved to a new location. She called on enrolees, who have changed location in which they registered for the National Identification Number (NIN) to apply for the transfer of their National e-ID card. The official said that the process allows successful enrolees to request for the transfer of their National e-ID Card to any NIMC Registration and Card Collection Centre of their choice for collection. Mrs Dagabana said that the transfer request could be made from any of the NIMC Registration and Card Collection Centres nationwide, other than where the individual enrolled for the National Identification Number. Reasons for Non-collection Speaking on possible reasons for non-collection of the e-ID Cards, the official explained that some people who have registered either relocated from the locations where they enrolled, or have changed the phone numbers they provided at the point of enrolment into the National Identity Database (NIDB). “As I’m telling you now, we have over 700,000 cards that are lying there in our offices, that the owners have not come to claim. “Because when you registered with us you provide a contact number and email address. “We have spent money sending SMS to the numbers that were provided for us. “Some people have moved, some have changed their numbers, they have not come to our database to update their numbers, so how are we going to know that you have changed your numbers?’’ she said. Mrs Dagabana, therefore, called on such persons to visit any NIMC office closest to them to request for a card transfer form, which they would fill and submit to the state coordinator or local government supervisor for processing.  (NAN) Follow us on twitter @NigeriaTodayNG Also, Like us on facebook 